--- Page 1 of 3 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
THEATRE
Courses
DESIGN HISTORY AND LITERATURE PERFORMANCE
THEATRE COMPANY
Students enrolled in this course will form a company of artists who will support
departmental productions by working six hours per week in the areas of scenery,
costumes, lighting, or sound. Additionally, students will fulfill back stage crew or front of
house management and ushering assignments; and serve as assistant directors, designers,
shop managers, and stage managers. Students will also participate in a specified number
of workshops, master classes, dramatic literature lecture/discussions, and attend
professional and educational performances. The final two semesters of Theatre Company
must occur during their senior year.
DESIGN FUNDAMENTALS
This beginning design course provides students the opportunity to explore the major areas
of design for theatrical production: costume, scenery/props, sound and lighting. Students
will be exposed to theatrical drawing, rendering, script analysis and collaboration. The
format of this class will vary from discussion to lecture to group activities. This course is
open to only first year students and sophomores. Juniors and seniors may register with
the permission of the instructor.
THEATRE LABORATORY
This course is designed to complement Theatre Company by providing a laboratory setting
for students to learn and develop their skills in technical theatre which in turn will support
the production component of the curriculum.
THEATRE PRODUCTION PRACTICUM

--- Page 2 of 3 ---

One credit is granted for assistant stage management and design positions for main-stage
Mtheenautre prSoedaurcchtions. This course may be repeated for up to four creAdpiptsly. PVreisrietquMisaijtoer:s & Minors
Must be chosen for an assistant stage management or design position for the production
season. For non-major students only.
MAKEUP DESIGN
Design and practice in the art of stage, screen and print makeup. The course focuses on
development of skills for the practicing theatre artist.
THEATRE ARTS MANAGEMENT
Studies of the managerial aspects of creating, producing and promoting both commercial
and non-profit theatre (educational, community and professional).
COSTUME DESIGN
A study of the art and practice of theatrical costume design. Emphasis will be placed on
the costume designer’s requirements for pre-production. Topics covered include analysis,
research, basic figure proportion, color theory, sketching, swatching and rendering.
Students will present design concepts through a series of renderings for selected periods
and plays.
SCENIC DESIGN
A study of the art and practice of theatrical scenic design. The focus of the course will be
on the traditional approaches to scenic design and a study of the elements of composition
as they apply to scenery. Students will work with different theatrical styles and settings
and will present design concepts through painted renderings and/or models as well as
draftings.
THEATRE SUSTAINABILITY
Using the black-box space Heather Hall as a model, this course introduces students to a
variety of strategies that seek to lessen the wasteful material nature often associated with
traditional theatre production. Electrical energy consumption and renewable energy
production are major facets of study; however, scenery, properties, costumes,
performance and the business aspects of theatre production will also be explored. Also
Environmental Studies 49-814.
LIGHTING DESIGN

--- Page 3 of 3 ---

An introductory study of the art and practice of lighting design. Students are introduced to
Mtheen uuniqueS eparrochcess via hands-on lighting projects in the departmentA’sp ppleyrfoVrimsitanMcea jsoprsa c&e Ms.inors
Design projects include recorded observations of natural and artificial lighting sources
followed by the study and research of a selected classic painting. Related topics include
additive color theory, lighting in a variety of theatrical spaces, and working with
incandescent and LED fixtures.
AUDIO TECHNOLOGY AND DESIGN
An introductory study of theatre sound systems and design for theatrical performance.
Using the systems in the Department’s performance spaces, students will become familiar
with mixers, effects processors, amplification and microphone technology. Students will
experience the design process and gain hands-on experience as assistant designers, audio
engineers and programmer/operators in plays produced by the Department.
SCENIC ELEMENTS AND STAGE PROPERTIES
This course specializes in the area of scenic building and properties production for the
stage. Areas covered include basic sewing for the stage and more advanced prop
fabrication. From initial script analysis for props, to working with designers, directors,
stage management and prop assistants, the student will explore ways to build/buy/borrow
or find the props best suited to the production.
SCENE PAINTING
A practical activity-based and lecture course which specializes in the study of various paint
finishes and techniques that are applied to stage scenery. When working on class
assignments, students will have the opportunity to experiment with paint, binders, tools
and techniques. The techniques covered serve as a foundation for further study and
exploration in the art of scene painting.
STAGE MANAGEMENT FOR THE THEATRE
An introduction to stage management for academic and professional theatre. This project-
oriented course provides students with a survey of techniques and strategies aimed at
modeling successful stage management. Students will gain hands-on experience by
working in stage management in the Department’s performance spaces.