--- Page 1 of 2 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
THEATRE
High Impact Learning Experiences
Southwestern Cast of Don Swan on the Royal Mile in Edinburgh Scotland
Are you seeking an immersive experience to enhance your Theatre education? Look no further!
At the Sarofim School of Fine Arts, we are dedicated to helping you maximize your academic and
creative endeavors. Our Theatre Department offers a wide range of opportunities that will enrich
your education and professional development. As a Theatre major, you will have the chance to

--- Page 2 of 2 ---

engage in at least two high-impact experiences before graduation, ensuring a well-rounded
educMaetinoun. Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
From study abroad programs to intensive summer internships, we provide numerous avenues for
you to explore and grow. Take a look at some of the experiences that our current and past students
have participated in below.
New York Arts Program
Study Abroad
London Semester Abroad
Internships
Mask and Wig Association
Alpha Psi Omega
Workshops and Guest Artists Series
Performing and management internships in New York City
Program Preference and Preparation
Not sure where to start in choosing and applying for a high-impact learning experience? The Center
for Career and Professional Development offers aid in picking the perfect program for your goals
and can help you craft excellent applications, resumes, and interview techniques tailored to get you
into the prestigious program of your dreams.
Fundingand the Sarofim School of Fine Arts offer a variety of funding options for
high-impact learning experiences. For Theatre major-related pursuits, students may apply for a
Sarofim Travel Grant of up to $700 that can be utilized once per year for the entirety of their time
at Southwestern. Specific study abroad experiences have previously been funded by generous
donors, and programs like the London Semester Abroad can be supported by a student’s general
tuition scholarships and financial aid. Students needing additional funding may also apply for
Paideia scholarships, as well as scholarships offered through the Office of Intercultural Learning
(contact). With ample financial support available, every student has the opportunity to excel in the
high-impact programs that call to them!