--- Page 1 of 3 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
THEATRE
Courses
DESIGN HISTORY AND LITERATURE PERFORMANCE
THEATRE APPRECIATION
An introduction to the various elements that contribute to the development of theatre as a
specialized art form, with particular emphasis placed on the role of theatre as an artistic
and humanizing experience. Topics covered include historical and cultural influences, the
nature and variety of dramatic texts, the nature of acting, the functions of theatrical design
and the integration of theatrical aesthetics in performance. Several plays illustrating the
a…
THEATRE ARTS IN LONDON
A theoretical and experiential survey of the art of the theatre, its past and present, with an
emphasis on the role of theatre within the society and the techniques employed to achieve
its purpose. Emphasis will be upon attending performances in London. This course is
taught by faculty from Goldsmith College, University of London. An additional fee is levied
to pay for admission to theatre performances. (Fall in London Program only)
INTRODUCTION TO PLAY ANALYSIS
A course exploring various critical approaches to Western written texts intended for the
stage. The selection of plays will help students develop the ability to analyze and evaluate
a variety of scripts in terms of form ,structure, tone and style. Students will be introduced
to some of the most important realistic plays of the twentieth century while also exploring
texts that depart from realism.
THEATRE HISTORY

--- Page 2 of 3 ---

A course exploring Western theatre and drama in a variety of periods. Theatre
MpeernfuormanSceaersc hand plays will be analyzed as functions of different fieAlpdpsl yof VinisfliutenMcaejors & Minors
(economic realities of production and attendance; politics and power relations within and
outside the theatre; social norms regarding gender, race, ethnicity, religion, family, etc;
aesthetic values of the time). In addition, the course is meant to introduce students to
methods of critical research and issues of historiography.
EAST MEETS WEST: INTERCULTURALISM AND THEATRE
An investigation of theatrical interculturalism in a world-wide context. This course
examines the series of exchanges, imitations, misunderstandings, and betrayals that took
place in theatre during the twentieth-century and the new forms produced at the
intersection of cultures.
PLAYWRITING
Theory and practices of playwriting. Includes the writing of scripts for theatre reading and
production.
DRAMATURGY
Fundamentals for the development of a dramaturgical sensibility in order to promote
integration between theory (the knowledge of theatre history, dramatic literature, and
criticism) and practice (the know-how and expertise needed to realize the potential of a
play in a particular production). This course is a prerequisite for those students who intend
to dramaturg for SSFA productions.
COSTUME HISTORY I
A survey of historic costume and fashion in the Western world from classical antiquity
through the 18th century. This course focuses on the exploration of the relationship
between social, political and cultural occurrences and fashion, art and clothing. The ability
to identify historical periods by costume silhouette and major events will be acquired in
addition to the procurement of a broad vocabulary of costume and fashion terminology.
COSTUME HISTORY II
A survey of historic costume and fashion in the Western world from the late 18th century
through the present. This course focuses on the exploration of the relationship between
social, political and cultural occurrences and fashion, art and clothing. The ability to
identify historical periods by costume silhouette and major events will be acquired in

--- Page 3 of 3 ---

addition to the procurement of a broad vocabulary of costume and fashion terminology.
MSpeneucial atSteenartciohn will be given to the late 20th century and the impaAcpt pcloystVuimsite aMndaj ofarss h&i oMninors
has on the student themselves.
GEORGETOWN, TEXAS
512.863.6511
CONTACT