--- Page 1 of 21 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
THEATRE
Notable Faculty & Student Achievements
February 2026
Associate Professor of Theatre Kerry Bechtel designed the costumes and masks for Zach
Theater’s beloved classic, Charlotte’s Web. This family-friendly production tells the story using live
bluegrass music, aerial silk acrobatics, and mask work. Performances run through May 17. Get
your tickets here!
January 2026
Professor of Theatre Sergio Costola recently published an article titled “Farò raddoppiare li segni
pubblici de gaudio et letitia per la terra et per tutto. Lucrezia Borgia and Her Theatre of
Diplomacy (1509–1512)” in Storie e Linguaggi 11.2 (2025). The article examines Lucrezia Borgia’s
diplomatic activity during the wars of the early sixteenth century, showing how the courtly
receptions, musical performances, dances, and fashion spectacles she organized in Ferrara
functioned not merely as displays of power but as active instruments of political negotiation and
mediation. The article is available open access here.

--- Page 2 of 21 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
November 2025
Computer science and theatre double major Aidan Balakrishnan ’26, computer science and
mathematics double major Tanner Klein ’26, and computer science major Matthew Volkin ’26
participated in the Association of Computing Machinery’s South Central USA Regional
Programming Contest on November 8, solving seven out of 13 problems. Their team, the pi-rates,
placed 4th among the 20 teams in the South Central USA Division. They participated in the
competition at the University of Texas at Austin site, but were in competition with teams at other
sites throughout the South Central USA Region. Teams in the Mid-Atlantic USA Region and
Southeast USA Region competed on the same day, and across the entire conference, the pi-rates
placed 17th out of 94 teams. The team was coached by Associate Professor of Computer Science
Jacob Schrum.
Associate Professor of Theatre Kerry Bechtel designed the costumes for A Charlie Brown
Christmas at Zach Theater in downtown Austin. This musical is based upon the classic Peanuts
family favorite and is a wonderful holiday event for the whole family. The production runs from
November 7 through the end of the year. Tickets can be obtained here.
Theatre alumna Olivia Rose McCain ’22 was awarded a 2025 B. Iden Payne Award for
Outstanding Hair and Makeup Design for her work on MotherTree at the VORTEX Repertory in
Austin. Olivia is an actor, designer, and entrepreneur with a successful podcast called Gals &
Goblins.

--- Page 3 of 21 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
July 2025
Professor of Theatre Desiderio Roybal designed stage scenery and is the scenic charge artist for
Magnolia Musical Theatre’s production of SpongeBob the Musical. This professional production is
directed by Professor Emeritus of Theatre Rick Roemer, with technical direction by Scene Shop
Manager Monroe Oxley. Students Ansh Tripathi ’28 and Yeva Tcharikova ’28 collaborated with
Roybal and Oxley as academic interns in the fabrication and painting of scenery. Students Emma
Hoover ’27, Olivia Hynes ’27, Piper Swisher ’27, and Emily Williams ’28 are scenic carpenters
and painters. The production is running Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday evenings at
8:00 p.m. from July 16 through August 16 at the Hill Country Galleria Pavilion in Bee Cave, TX.
Attendees are encouraged to bring a blanket or lawn chair and their favorite beverage to be
transported to Bikini Bottom for an unforgettable evening of entertainment featuring a talented
cast and crew performing alongside a live orchestra.
June 2025
Theatre alumnus Kyle Bussone Peterson ’24 is currently appearing as “Motel Kamzoil” in Fiddler
on the Roof, now playing on the historic Angus Springer Stage at the Palace Theatre. Motel is a
sweet and timid character who stands up for himself when he and Tevye’s daughter, Tzeitel
announce their engagement. The production is directed by Professor Emeritus Rick Roemer,
former Artistic Director and Chair of the Theatre Department. The show opened on May 30 and

--- Page 4 of 21 ---

runs Fridays, Saturdays, and Sundays through July 6. Many performances are sold out, and
remaining dates have limited seating available.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
February 2025
Associate Professor of Theatre Kerry Bechtel was invited to collaborate with the Drama
Department at Austin Community College (ACC) on their production of The Long Christmas Ride
Home by award-winning playwright Paula Vogel. Bechtel designed the costumes and mentored
three ACC students in costumes, hair, makeup, and puppetry. This deeply moving play chronicles
a seminal event in the life of Vogel and her siblings and features bunraku puppetry. The
production runs through March 2, 2025. Tickets can be reserved here.
Assistant Professor of Theatre Gabriel Peña, Scene Shop Supervisor Monroe Oxley, and
Professor of Theatre Desiderio Roybal collaborated on Adam Gwan’s chamber musical, Ordinary
Days, for Penfold Theatre. This intimate musical follows four individuals as they navigate the
frantic energy of New York City. Audiences are invited to consider the beauty of the ordinary as
the characters connect, fall apart, lose each other, and find themselves. Peña served as director,
Oxley as technical director, and Roybal as scenic designer. SU theatre major Bethani Pedraza ’25
and theatre minor Yeva Tcharikova ’28 provided technical assistance. Penfold Theatre is a 501(c)
(3) professional theatre company recently setting roots in Round Rock, TX after 15 years of
producing theatre in the greater Austin area. The productions run February 7 – March 1 at their
new permanent home in Round Rock. The trailer, tickets, and information about Penfold Theatre
is available here.

--- Page 5 of 21 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Associate Professor of Theatre Kerry Bechtel designed the costumes for Unity Theatre’s
production of The Trip to Bountiful. This mid-20th century play was written by Pulitzer Prize-
winning Texas native Horton Foote and explores themes of longing, discontent, and family. This
production runs from February 6 through February 23 in historic Brenham, Texas. Tickets can be
purchased at unitybrenham.org.
January 2025
Visiting Assistant Professor of Theatre Amy King choreographed The Secret Garden at The
Georgetown Palace Theatre. The musical, based on the children’s novel, opens this Friday, January
31, and runs until Sunday, March 2. It plays Fridays and Saturdays at 7:30 p.m. and Sundays at
2:00 p.m. Tickets can be purchased here.
October 2024
On October 15, Visiting Assistant Professor of Theatre Amy Rebecca King spoke at the book
launch for Critical Acting Pedagogies: Intersectional Approaches. The book launch was held at
RADA (The Royal Academy of Dramatic Art) in London and online, broadcast in America and the

--- Page 6 of 21 ---

UK. Her chapter, “Liberating Casting and Training Practices for Mixed-Asian Students,” was one of
10 academic writings highlighted at the event.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Professor of Theatre Desiderio Roybal designed the scenery and stage properties for I’m Proud of
You by Tim Madigan. This production is a staged adaptation of Madigan’s novel, I’m Proud of You:
My Friendship with Fred Rogers. The play chronicles the true and extraordinary bond between Tim
Madigan, a Texas author and reporter for the Fort Worth Star-Telegram, and Fred Rogers, the
iconic TV host of Mister Rogers’ Neighborhood. This production will be the inaugural production in
Penfold Theatre’s new and permanent theatre venue in Round Rock, TX. Roybal also served as a
theatre consultant on the new venue, which will be the first professional theatre in Round Rock.
The production showcases Professor Emeritus Rick Roemer and SU alumnus Zac Carr ’11 as
actors. SU Scene Shop Manager Monroe Oxley is the Technical Director for this production.
Additionally, the stage and seating risers were designed and constructed by Oxley using a build
crew that included Connor Bustos ’26 and Ash Zunker ’25. The production runs October 4-26.
September 2024
Art history and theatre graduate Gabriella Gonzalez Biziou ’12 starred in and associated-
produced a beautifully executed short film titled Foolhardy Love. Gabriella is returning to Texas
this month to promote the film, which follows a couple confronted with two very different desires
for their future. An official selection for the Beverly Hills Film Festival 2024, Foolhardy Lovescreens
in Austin at the Austin Under the Stars Film Festival on Thursday, September 12 at 7:30 p.m., and
at the Austin Spotlight Film Festival on Saturday, September 14 at 7:00 p.m. The film has been
nominated for Best Narrative (at both festivals), Best Director, Best Actress (at both festivals), and
Best Actor. The trailer can be viewed here.

--- Page 7 of 21 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
August 2024
Visiting Assistant Professor of Theatre Amy Rebecca King, along with her colleague Robert
Torigoe, published a chapter entitled “Liberating Casting and Training Practices for Mixed-Asian
Students” in Critical Acting Pedagogy: Intersectional Approaches. The chapter, which examines the
history of multiracial representation and offers practical inclusive pedagogical approaches, can be
found here.
July 2024
This summer, Visiting Assistant Professor of Theatre Amy King directed Cats at the Georgetown
Palace Theatre. Recommended by SU’s Ride the Cyclone director Kristen Rogers, King
collaborated with Evelyn Hoelscher of the Spaces of Fontana Dance Company and music director
Michael Rosensteel on a contemporary take on the classic production. The production runs
Fridays and Saturdays at 7:30 p.m., and Sundays at 2:00 p.m. from August 2 through September 8.
Tickets can be purchased here.

--- Page 8 of 21 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Professor of Theatre Sergio Costola published an essay entitled “Lucrezia Borgia Triumphal
Chariot: Notes on Performance Documentation” in Skenè. Journal of Theatre and Drama Studies,
10.1 (2024): 61-80, Memory and Performance, Classical Reception in Early Modern Festivals. The
Monographic Section was edited by Francesca Bortoletti, Giovanna Di Martino, and Eugenio
Refini. The essay can be read here.
June 2024
Professor of Theatre Desiderio Roybal served as a theatre staging and venue consultant for
Penfold Theatre’s new home in Round Rock, TX. This is the first professional theatre venue in
Round Rock. Penfold Theatre will open its 17th season and continues its mission of telling
intimate stories of empathy and hope, curating performances by premier local artists, and
nurturing theatremakers of today and tomorrow. The opening of this facility will also provide
other performing artists access to affordable space at a time when venues are disappearing.
Professor of Theatre Desiderio Roybal designed scenery and is the scenic charge artist for
Magnolia Musical Theatre’s production of Footloose the musical, running July 10 through August
10 at Hill Country Galleria Pavilion in Bee Cave, TX. This professional production is directed by
Professor Emeritus of Theatre Rick Roemer, with technical direction by Scene Shop
Manager Monroe Oxley. Students Connor Bustos ’26 and Em Hoover ’27 collaborated with
Roybal and Oxley as academic interns in scenic fabrication and scenic art. Alumni Kyle Bussone-
Peterson ’24 and Alex Cannata ’24, along with students Ashlyn Zunker ’25 and Olivia Hynes ’27
are scenic carpenters and painters.

--- Page 9 of 21 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Associate Professor of Theatre Kerry Bechtel designed the costumes for The Star Spangled Girl
at Unity Theater in Brenham, TX. This classic Neil Simon comedy required 15 distinct costumes
from the late 1960s for the three main characters. Unity Theater is a professional theatre company
located in beautiful Washington County, attracting theatre artists and patrons from both the
Austin and Houston areas. The Star Spangled Girl runs through June 30.
Professor of Theatre Sergio Costola was the keynote speaker for the International Conference
“RAPPRESENTARE GLI ESTE. La comunicazione del potere Estense entro e oltre i confini della
signoria” in Ferrara, Italy from May 23-25.
April 2024
Senior Research and Instruction Librarian Katherine Hooker presented a poster at the Texas
Library Association’s annual conference on April 17. “Three Ring Library Circus (But in a Good
Way): Leaning into the Theme with Creative Instruction for Creative Students” summarized three-
part library instruction delivered to students in Associate Professor of Theatre Kerry Bechtel’s
“Design Fundamentals” course. Students learned via an online escape game, a collaborative
Padlet, and an InfoGuide, all highly customized around the course’s vibrant circus theme.

--- Page 10 of 21 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
March 2024
Associate Professor of Theatre Kerry Bechtel worked as a costume buyer for Amazon Pictures’
new series “Fallout.” Alumnus Jonathan Knipscher ’03 was the Associate Costume Designer on
the project. The show premieres on April 11, 2024. The series trailer can be seen here.
Visiting Assistant Professor of Theatre Amy King wrote, directed, and produced a staged reading
of her new play Finger Lickin’ Goodat the Jones Theatre in February. The cast included
students Jason Bui ’27 as Raymond, Kyle Bussone-Peterson ’24 as Kevin, and Connor Bustos ’26
on stage directions. They were joined by guest Gina Houston in the leading role of Alice and
Director of Business Internships and Assistant Professor of Business Andy Ross as Jim, etc., in his
acting debut! The reading was also performed at Austin Community College in Highland Park.
February 2024

--- Page 11 of 21 ---

Professor of Theatre Desiderio Roybal was invited to join the Board of Directors for the Palace
Theatre, Georgetown, TX.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
November 2023
Professor of Theatre Desiderio Roybal designed the staging and was a scenic artist of scenery
and stage properties for Penfold Theatre’s production of Yasmina Reza’s play, Art. The comedy is
playing at the Ground Floor Theatre in Austin, TX. from Nov. 2 through Nov. 18. Glenda Wolfe, SU
Costume Shop Manager, designed costumes, and the production was directed by Stephen
Pounders, Professor of Theatre at Baylor University. The production explores the meaning of art
and the meaning of friendship. When Serge purchases an all-white painting for $200,000.00, his
longtime friendship with good friends Marc and Yvonne is tested. Arguments quickly go from
theoretical to personal to confrontational, and friendships hang in the balance. Yasmina Reza’s
sometimes heartbreaking play asks poignant questions about the meaning of art and friendship.
The play has won the Moliere Awards for Best Play, Best Author, Best Production, the Lawrence
Olivier Award for Best Comedy, and the Tony Award for Best Play. Penfold
website: https://tinyurl.com/art-penfold Production
stills: https://tinyurl.com/ytafq9dr Trailer: https://youtu.be/7Mn5xqSNMK8.
August 2023
In June, Visiting Assistant Professor of Theatre Amy King completed the teacher certification
program at The Meisner Institute and is now a Designated Meisner Teacher (DMT). King also led

--- Page 12 of 21 ---

and organized the panel “What Are You? Amplifying Mixed-Asian Voices in Acting Pedagogy,”
which she presented at the ATHE (Association of Theatre in Higher Education) 2023 conference.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
She was able to bring student Bronwyn Fogarty to attend the four-day conference, which featured
panels by several theatre scholars from around the world.
Associate Professor and Chair of the Theatre Department Kerry Bechtel has accepted an
invitation to serve on The United States Institute of Theatre Technology (USITT) Costume
Commission Leadership Board and as the International Organization of Scenographers, Theatre
Architects and Technicians (OISTAT) representative for a three-year term. OISTAT organizes the
Prague Quadrennial and World Stage Design Event and is a collective of theatre creatives working
worldwide. The USITT Costume Commission develops and oversees national and regional
programming and events for professionals, academics, and students involved in the fields of
design and technical theatre.
On August 3rd, Gabriel Peña presented at the American Theatre in Higher Education conference.
He spoke on the panel “Spotlight on New Works LIA (Latinx Indigenous and the Americas) and
ATDS (American Theatre and Drama Society). Only two books were selected by LIA to highlight
this year, and he presented on behalf of one of them, Marissa Chibás’ work “Mythic Imagination
and the Actor: Exercises, Inspiration, and Guidance for the 21 Century Actor”.

--- Page 13 of 21 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
July 2023
Professor of Theatre Desiderio Roybal designed scenery and was Scenic Charge Artist for
Magnolia Musical Theatre’s inaugural production of the musical, “Beauty and the Beast,” running
July 19 through August 13 at the Galleria Pavillion in Bee Cave, TX. This professional production is
directed by SU theatre faculty Emeritus, Rick Roemer, with technical direction by SU theatre scene
shop manager, Monroe Oxley. Bella Morrow ’25 and Piper Swisher ’26 collaborated with Roybal as
academic interns in scenic fabrication and scenic art. Kyle Bussone-Peterson ’24, Alex Canatta ’24,
and Ashlyn Zunker ’25 were scenic carpenters.
Professor of Theatre and Dean of the Faculty Sergio Costola, JaimeLynn Hotaling ’23, and Maisie
Jones ’23 presented a paper titled “Undergraduate Research and Theatre: Lessons Learned during
the Pandemic” at the 2023 ConnectUR Annual Conference, held June 26-28 at Duquesne
University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
June 2023
Professor of Theatre Desiderio Roybal designed and painted scenery for Penfold Theatre’s world
premiere production of “Box,” running June 23 through July 8 at the Ground Floor Theatre in
Austin, TX. The playscript and production is a two-year collaboration with Jarrett King, playwright-
in-residence at the Goodman Theatre in Chicago, IL; Ryan Crowder, Producing Artistic Director of
Penfold Theatre; and a collaborative production team with direction from Simone Alexander,
Producing Artistic Director and Founder of New Manifest Theatre Company, Austin, TX. SU

--- Page 14 of 21 ---

Theatre major Kyle Bussone-Peterson ’24 collaborated with Roybal and the production team by
serving as Stage Property Designer and Property Master. Bussone-Peterson completed this
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
faculty/student collaboration as an Academic Internship opportunity with Penfold Theatre. “Box”
is a story about Mr. Henry “Box” Brown, an abolitionist born into slavery in 1815 and escaped
slavery at 33 by arranging to have himself shipped via a wooden crate from Virginia to an
abolitionist in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, in 1849. The crate measured 3’1” long x 2’6” high x 2’
wide, equipped with 3 holes for air and a water bladder. The sealed crate was transported by
wagon, railroad, steamboat, and ferry over an approximated time of 27 hours. Watch the
trailer here.
Associate Professor and Chair of the Department of Theatre Kerry Bechtel completed the
costume design for the mid-century classic musical Godspell by John-Michael Tebelak and
Stephen Schwartz. This production runs through June 25, 2023, at Unity Theater, a professional
AEA and USA-associated theater company in Brenham, Texas. https://unitybrenham.org/
April 2023
Professor of Theatre Desiderio Roybal secured a design contract with Magnolia Musical Theatre
to design the stage scenery for the musical Beauty and the Beast. The production is being
directed byProfessor Emeritus Rick Roemer, with Technical Direction by
Monroe Oxley,Scene Shop Supervisor. The production will be presented
at the Galleria at Bee Caves, TX. July18-August 13.

--- Page 15 of 21 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Professor of Theatre Desiderio Roybal secured a scenic design contract with Penfold Theatre. The
project is threefold: 1. Collaboration with Chicago playwright Jarrett King to develop an original
playscript about the life and times of Henry “Box” Brown. 2. Specifically, design and paint early
20th Century roll drop scenery with dry pigment paint and ground flake animal glue. 3. Present
the design in a modern presentational format at the Ground Floor Theatre, Austin, TX, in June
2023. Henry “Box” Brown was an abolitionist who was born into slavery in 1815 and escaped
slavery at the age of 33 by arranging to have himself shipped via a wooden crate from Virginia to
an abolitionist in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, in 1849. Henry Brown went on to lecture for the
abolitionist movement in New England before moving to England, where he continued to speak
out about the evils of slavery and performed his one-man show, Henry Box Brown’s Mirror of
Slavery.
March 2023
Assistant Professor of Theatre Gabriel Peña presented a workshop at SETC (the Southeastern
Theatre Conference) in Lexington, Kentucky, on March 3. His workshop “Sensing Possibilities:
Feldenkrais Method and its Potential Applications for Performers” explored how Awareness
Through Movement lessons, often utilized as physical therapy, can be resourceful to actors.

--- Page 16 of 21 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Feburary 2023
Professor of English Michael Saenger and Associate Professor of Theatre Sergio
Costola collaborated on a book titled Shakespeare in Succession: Translation and Time (McGill-
Queen’s University Press, 2023). The edited collection brings together scholars from eight
different countries and five continents.
January 2023
Professor of Theatre Desiderio Roybal designed A Christmas Carol for Penfold Theatre, which
was presented at Old Settlers Hall in Round Rock, Texas, December 8-23. The classic radio cast
production involved the design of a 1930s radio broadcast venue where five female actors
represented all characters while also hand-operating Foley sound effects. The production ran at
Old Settlers Hall December 8-18 before moving to the Driskill Hotel in Austin for a two-night run
December 22 and 23.
October 2022
Associate Professor of Theatre and Associate Dean of the Faculty Sergio Costola presented a
paper titled “Lucrezia Borgia and Theatrical Practice of Women in Elite Society” at a conference on

--- Page 17 of 21 ---

Memory and Performance. Classical Reception in Early Modern Festivals sponsored by the Archive
for Performances of Greek and Roman Drama of the University of Oxford, England (Parma, Italy,
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
October 13-14, 2022).
Associate Professor of Theatre and Associate Dean of the Faculty Sergio Costola presented a
paper titled “The Battle of Polesella (1509). Diplomatic Relations and the Performing Arts” at the
10th Splendid Encounters Conference, Beyond the Truth. Misinformation and Credibility in Early
Modern Diplomacy (Florence, Italy, October 12-14, 2022).
September 2022
Visiting Assistant Professor of Theatre Amy Rebecca King organized a panel titled “Mixed-Asian
Casting” for the 2022 Association for Theatre in Higher Education Annual Conference, held July
28–31 in Detroit, Michigan. Even though multicultural people make up the fastest-growing
demographic in America, they are underrepresented in the media. This panel explored the issues
that multicultural actors, specifically mixed-Asian actors, experience in the casting industry. King,
along with her colleagues Reiko Aylesworth (Southern Methodist University) and Robert Torigoe
(University of Hawaii), gathered interviews with actor Amy Hill, casting director Victor Vazquez,
and editor-in-chief of Mixed Asian Media Alex Chester and explored the experiences of mixed-
Asian actors, as well as the difficulties of casting according to race in film/TV, theatre, and media.
The session was very well attended, and the first-time panelists have been invited back to present
at next year’s conference.

--- Page 18 of 21 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
June 2022
Associate Professor of Theatre and Department Chair Kerry Bechtel designed the costumes for a
production of The Sweet Delilah Swim Clubat Unity Theater in Brenham, Texas. Unity Theater is a
professional theater located midway between Austin and Houston that brings together
professional actors, directors, and designers from both cities. The production runs from June 2–
19.
May 2022
Theatre students Dane Parker ’22, Campbell Duffy ’22, Jaime Hotaling ’23, Harrison
Jones ’23, Oskar Brian ’22, Jessica Workman ’22, Ash Zunker ’25, and Lilly Percifield ’22
performed G.H.O.S.T. Unit: The Live Event on February 26 and advanced from the Region 6 Festival
(where they received three Meritorious Achievement Awards for Innovative Theatre Practices,
Outstanding Ensemble, and Support of New Work) to the national Kennedy Center American
College Theater Festival. Cast and crew received the Innovative Theatrical Experience Special
Achievement Award. G.H.O.S.T. Unit: The Live Eventis part of Associate Professor of Theatre Sergio
Costola’s 2021–2022 and 2022–2023 faculty-student projects.

--- Page 19 of 21 ---

Part-time Instructor of Theatre Yesenia Garcia Herrington ’03 was selected to join the second
annual tuition-free program “Commercial Theatre Producing 101” sponsored by Theatre
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Producers of Color, based out of New York City. The competitive 10-week program provides
education, training, and mentorship to aspiring BIPOC producers. She also was invited to
participate in a “Women in Theatre” panel at Texas State University on April 30.
Feburary 2022
Associate Professor of Theatre and Paideia Director Sergio Costola and Jaime Hotaling ’23
presented a paper titled “Theatre Education at the Crossroads: Lessons Learned during the
Pandemic” at the 2022 American Association of Colleges and Universities (AAC&U) Conference on
General Education, Pedagogy, and Assessment, held February 10–12 in San Diego, California.
December 2021
Professor of Theatre Desiderio Roybal designed a 1930s scenic setting of a fictional KPNF radio
station for Penfold Theatre in Austin. The audience experiences the arrival of a small company of
virtuosic voice actors who perform multiple roles in the radiocast of A Miracle on 34th Streetusing
live Foley sound effects. The load-in and installation was assisted by Southwestern student Dusty
Cutler ’25. The production runs December 9–19.

--- Page 20 of 21 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Associate Professor of Theatre and Paideia Director Sergio Costola collaborated with Olly Crick
on a book to be published by Routledge in December 2021. The book, titled The Dramaturgy of
Commedia dell’Arte, examines commedia dell’arte as a performative genre and one that should be
analyzed through the framework of dramaturgy and dramaturgical practice.
November 2021
Associate Professor of Theatre Kerry Bechtel was invited to review the recently published
book Shoe Reels: The History and Philosophy of Footwear in Film for The Journal of Dress History,
published by the Association of Dress Historians. The review appeared in the winter 2021 issue.
September 2021
Students Dane Parker ’22, Campbell Duffy ’22, Jaime Hotaling ’23, Harrison Jones ’23, Oskar
Brian ’22, and Jessica Workman ’22 performed G.H.O.S.T. Unit: The Live Eventon September 29
for the two respondents of the Kennedy Center American College Theater Festival and received
three Meritorious Achievements for Innovative Theatre Practices, Outstanding Ensemble, and
Support of New Work. Hotaling and Duffy were also nominated for the prestigious Irene Ryan
Acting Award. G.H.O.S.T. Unit: The Live Eventwas directed by part-time Assistant Professor of

--- Page 21 of 21 ---

Theatre CB Goodman and is part of Associate Professor of Theatre Sergio Costola’s 2022–2023
faculty-student project.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
GEORGETOWN, TEXAS
512.863.6511
CONTACT