--- Page 1 of 3 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
THEATRE
Courses
DESIGN HISTORY AND LITERATURE PERFORMANCE
VOICE AND MOVEMENT
This is a practical, activity-based course designed to help students speak and move with
ease and freedom. Voice work will focus on improving resonance and enunciation and will
include work on stage dialects. Movement work will focus on body alignment and spatial
awareness.
FUNDAMENTALS OF ACTING
This course is designed to introduce students to the processes of acting, including
developing clear characters, analyzing scripts, exploring dramatic action and conflict and
making bold choices in the development of scenes and monologues. Students will work on
basic acting skills including movement, voice, and improvisation. Substantial written and
performance work is required.
THEATRE PERFORMANCE PRACTICUM
Main-stage productions are open to all University students. One credit is granted for each
production. This course may be repeated for up to four credits. Prerequisite: Must be cast
in a role in a main-stage production. For non-major students only.
ALEXANDER TECHNIQUE
The Alexander Technique is a body alignment and movement technique that focuses on
alignment of the spine and skeleton. When the spine and skeleton come into alignment,
muscles soften, tension releases, coordination improves, and the body works more
efficiently. This activity-based course focuses on group and private work with the

--- Page 2 of 3 ---

instructor and is particularly appropriate for Theatre and Music students. May be repeated
Mfoern curedit.Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
THEATRE DANCE
Preparation and execution of basic movement exercises, jazz, tap and modern dance and
their application to choreography for musical theatre. Also Dance 79-414.
ACTING: REALISM
This course investigates the analysis and performance of scenes from realistic plays
Students engage in activities designed to explore advanced techniques for personalizing
and physicalizing characters, playing actions and objectives, and engaging in rigorous
script analysis
DEPARTURES FROM REALISM
Study and practice of 20th and 21st-century acting techniques through research, analysis
work and performance.
MUSICAL THEATRE WORKSHOP
This course focuses on the intensive practical aspects of scene-and-song work in the
repertory of popular musical theatre genres, paying particular attention to the skills
needed as an actor to interpret lyrics and text within the structure of a musical play. While
this course focuses on the performative elements of acting in a musical, considerable
reading and critical analysis will also be required. May be repeated for credit.
THEATRE FOR SOCIAL CHANGE: PRACTICE AND PERFORMANCE
This course explores theatre as a political, activist, problem solving, educational and
aesthetic tool. Students will learn to develop interactive performances that can be used to
effect social change in a wide variety of community settings.
FEMINISM AND PERFORMANCE
A course focusing on the ways culture has constructed the performance of gender on
stage, in every-day life and in the media. Also Communication Studies 75-524 and
Feminist Studies 04-724. (FAP) (WA)
ACTING: POETIC LANGUAGE

--- Page 3 of 3 ---

This course explores acting techniques for developing performances from texts that
Mfeeantuure poSeetaircc hlanguage. Activities include voice and language, movAemppelnyt aVnisdit mMananjoerrss & Minors
and dialect work. Rigorous character and scene analysis and historical research are
required.
DIRECTING FOR THE THEATRE
Principles and practices of directing. Includes detailed analysis of the playscript and
directing of laboratory or workshop productions.
ADVANCED DIRECTING
This course will explore how a director transforms personal vision into social and aesthetic
meaning in a theatrical event. Through lecture, discussion and in-class exercises, the
course will examine how a director uses an in-depth approach to script analysis with a
special emphasis on the directors use of theatrical space and conventions to project a
point of view. Prerequisite: Theatre 73-894
GEORGETOWN, TEXAS
512.863.6511
CONTACT