--- Page 1 of 5 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
MAJORS & MINORS
Theatre
Grounded in theatre history and criticism, dramatic literature, performance
studies and theatreŌĆÖs arts and crafts, Southwestern Theatre students receive
education and training in the intellectual, artistic, and cultural dimensions of
live theatrical performance.
Desi Roybal
Professor of Theatre and Chair
EEMMAAIILL CCAALLLL

--- Page 2 of 5 ---

A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum, 2018 (Photo credit: Carlos Barron)
The Theatre Department provides academic, production and laboratory experiences designed to
help students develop their artistic potential and to become well-rounded theatre artists. We work
to educate students who are well prepared for graduate schools and advanced theatre training
programs and for work in the professional theatre. We are also dedicated to empowering
individuals who will use the analytical, critical, practical and artistic skills inherent in the theatre
discipline to entertain, educate, enlighten and contribute to their communities and the world in
insightful and celebratory ways.
The Theatre Department offers a Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) The degree is designed to provide
students with a solid grounding in all areas of theatre studies including history, dramatic literature,
performance, design, management, and technical theatre. Students who choose the Bachelor of
Arts option often combine their work in theatre with work in other disciplines, are interested in
graduate education focusing on research and scholarship, or are certifying to teach.
For students who are Work Study eligible as part of their financial aid package, there are numerous
jobs in the area of the theatre, such as faculty assistants, box office staff, and backstage crew.
Students interested in these positions should inquire through department head of the desired area.
Ņżü Ņżü
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors

--- Page 3 of 5 ---

AFTER SOUTHWESTERN
Featured Alumni Stories
Painting for a Cause
Southwestern alumna Rachel Hancock ŌĆÖ14 uses her abilities to help a community she loves.
READ FULL STORY
EXPLORE SOUTHWESTERN
Theatre News
Ņżü Ņżü
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors

--- Page 4 of 5 ---

SSEEEE FFUULLLL LLIISSTT
Video: SouthwesternŌĆÖs Theatre Department Sets the Stage for Successful
Careers
Two theatre alumni recently returned to Southwestern to collaborate on a student production.
Hear their reflections on how their time at SU prepared them for successful careers in theatre.
READ FULL STORY
Ņżü Ņżü
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors

--- Page 5 of 5 ---

GEORGETOWN, TEXAS
512.863.6511
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
CONTACT