--- Page 1 of 2 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
THEATRE
Theatre Scholarship
Southwestern Theatre Majors are eligible for the Sarofim Scholarship in
Theatre by auditioning.
SSoouutthhwweesstteerrnn TThheeaattrree DDeeppaarrttmmeenntt IInnttrroodduuccttiioonn
The Sarofim School of Fine Arts
Watch on
Welcome to’s Theatre Department! We highly encourage prospective
students to audition and/or participate in a portfolio review for the prestigious Sarofim Scholarship
in Theatre. When you apply toand indicate an interest in theatre, you will
be invited to submit an audition video or portfolio online, with a link and instructions on how to do
so. Alternatively, theatre faculty may attend festivals, conferences, or audition events throughout
the state where prospective students may be invited to a callback or interview and could be offered
a scholarship.

--- Page 2 of 2 ---

After auditioning and receiving a scholarship, you’re invited to come to campus to attend and
Sarofim School of Fine Arts Scholarship Celebration Day
partMiciepnaute in tSheea rch App alyctivViitsiiets tMoa bjoer se l&ig Mibilneo tros
receive an additional Sarofim Scholarship award. Experience the world of Theatre, Music, Studio
Art, and Art History all housed within the Fine Arts Center at. You will
have the opportunity to experience the day with students who are also interested in the Fine Arts.
All students and parents will have the opportunity to attend short lectures or workshops in any of
the Fine Arts disciplines presented by our esteemed faculty. You will also tour our studios, shops,
theatres, and have an option to attend a performance of one of our shows. Come and get to know
your future peers and professors while participating in our planned events you want to experience.
It’s important to note that auditioning is not mandatory to pursue a major in theatre at
Southwestern. Once accepted into Southwestern, any student can choose to become a theatre
major if they wish to do so. In addition, any student may audition and participate in productions as
a non-major.
Candidates who receive the Sarofim Scholarship will not only be honored with this prestigious
award but will also be eligible for additional financial assistance through Southwestern
scholarships.
If you have questions about our theatre scholarship audition process, please reach out to the Chair
of the Theatre Department, Desiderio Roybal at roybald@southwestern.edu.
Guidelines for Submissions:
ACTING: Prepare a two-minute monologue and, if desired, also a song (32 bars of a song from a
musical.) You will be instructed where to upload your audition video.
ALL OTHER AREAS: You will be instructed where to upload your portfolio.
Please submit audition materials online no later than February 15, 2026; late submissions will be
considered on a case-by-case basis.
AAPPPPLLYY TTOO SSOOUUTTHHWWEESSTTEERRNN NNOOWW