--- Page 1 of 3 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
MMAAJJOORRSS && MMIINNOORRSS
Pre-Engineering Pathway
SStteevvee AAlleexxaannddeerr
Professor of Physics
Engineering is a creative application of scientific principles, focused on designing or developing structures,
machines, or manufacturing processes that realize a desired objective.
Southwestern’s Pre-Engineering Pathway places the technical training of the engineer within the broader
perspective of a liberal arts education. In this age, engineers cannot always confine themselves to the
technical aspects of engineering projects. The modern engineer must be aware of the social responsibilities of
the profession, and must be able to explain the possibilities and the risks of new technologies to others.
Indeed, many engineering schools have chosen to place added emphasis on the arts and humanities. Choosing

--- Page 2 of 3 ---

a path that starts at Southwestern allows students to gain the benefits of a rich liberal arts experience
(inclMudeinnug exceSleleanrct hscience and math foundations) that helps prepare them for comAppplelytinVg itshiteirM eanjogrins e&e rMiningors
degree and competing in the job market.
DDuuaall DDeeggrreeee EEnnggiinneeeerriinngg PPrrooggrraamm
Southwestern’s dual degree option allows students to spend three years at Southwestern, building a strong
foundation in physics, math, and the liberal arts, followed by several semesters at an ABET-accredited
engineering school. Students who complete both portions of the program earn:
•
A Bachelor of Arts in Applied Physics from, and
•
An undergraduate degree in Engineering from the partner engineering school.
We have a formal partnership with Washington University in St. Louis, where students can earn undergraduate
degrees from both institutions. Washington University also offers a fast-track option to earn a Master’s in
Engineering.
Students may also choose to complete the engineering portion at another ABET-accredited institution of their
choice.
MMaasstteerr ooff SScciieennccee iinn MMeecchhaanniiccaall EEnnggiinneeeerriinngg
For students interested in pursuing an advanced degree in mechanical engineering, our new partnership with
Texas Tech University offers a streamlined path to a master’s degree. Students who complete both portions of
the program earn:
•
A Bachelor of Arts in Applied Physics from Southwestern, and
•
A Master of Science in Mechanical Engineering at Texas Tech.
This program offers an accelerated, cost-effective route to a graduate degree while retaining the depth and
breadth of a Southwestern education.
PPhhyyssiiccss--ttoo--EEnnggiinneeeerriinngg GGrraadduuaattee PPaatthhwwaayy
Some students choose to complete a four-year degree in Physics at Southwestern and then apply to a
graduate program in engineering. This option can be especially valuable for those interested in specialized
fields like aerospace, biomedical, environmental engineering, etc.
A Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science in Physics from Southwestern provides:
•
A solid foundation in mathematics and the physical sciences
•
Strong analytical, problem-solving, and communication skills
•
The flexibility to pursue a wide range of engineering disciplines in graduate school
•
The opportunity to do research with Southwestern faculty
This path allows students to experience the full benefits of a liberal arts education while preparing for
advanced study in engineering.
CCoonnttaacctt PPrrooffeessssoorr ooff PPhhyyssiiccss SStteevvee AAlleexxaannddeerr ttoo lleeaarrnn mmoorree..

--- Page 3 of 3 ---

EEXXPPLLOORREE SSOOUUTTHHWWEESSTTEERRNN
Pre-Engineering Pathway News
SSoouutthhwweesstteerrnn UUnniivveerrssiittyy PPaarrttnneerrss wwiitthh TTeexxaass TTeecchh UUnniivveerrssiittyy ttoo CCrreeaattee AAcccceelleerraatteedd
PPaatthhwwaayy ffoorr BBaaccccaallaauurreeaattee aanndd MMaasstteerr’’ss DDeeggrreeeess
Southwestern and Texas Tech are teaming up to provide Applied Physics majors from SU with the
opportunity to pursue a master’s degree in Mechanical Engineering at TTU.
READ FULL STORY
 
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
GGEEOORRGGEETTOOWWNN,, TTEEXXAASS
551122..886633..66551111
CCOONNTTAACCTT