--- Page 1 of 1 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Home/French/Courses
FRENCH
Courses
Below you will find a list of our current or recent offerings. See the course catalog for descriptions and
Course Descriptions
updated information.Widget:
11-144 French I: Intro Language and Culture
This course builds listening, speaking, reading, writing, critical thinking and cultural literacy skills.
Students learn to communicate effectively both within personal areas of interest and relative to
French and Francophone cultures. Emphasis is placed on student participation, self-expression
and the ability to create with language. Students develop novice level proficiency. (Fall)
11-154 French II: Intro Language and Culture
This course continues to build listening and speaking skills and particularly enhances reading,
writing, critical thinking and cultural literacy skills. Students gain an understanding of
contemporary life in the French-speaking world through the textbook and supplementary film
units, including as related to global contexts. Students develop novice level proficiency.
Prerequisite: French 11-144, or equivalent placement. (Spring)
11-164 French III: Intrmd Language and Culture
This course blends grammar review with readings and viewings in literature and culture as well as
broader vocabulary practice. Students develop intermediate level proficiency, strengthen their
intercultural skills regarding cultural contexts, norms and viewpoints in the French-speaking world,
and practice narration and description orally and in writing. Students enhance their reading,
writing, listening and speaking skills, and apply them through conversation, textual analysis and
cultural analysis. Prerequisite: French 11-154, or equivalent placement. (Fall)
11-204 Conversation and Culture
This course strengthens conversation as well as intercultural skills. Students learn informal
vocabulary and slang, discuss contemporary cultural contexts, norms and perspectives analyze
everyday culture . Students acquire in-depth awareness of everyday French culture and language,
and they practice casually spoken French daily in small groups or more structured role plays.
Students improve their reading, writing and critical thinking skills. Develops intermediate and
advanced oral and written proficiencies. Contributes to International Studies. Prerequisite: French
11-164, or equivalent placement. (Spring) (H) (WA
11-304 Selected Topics
May be repeated with change in topic. Contributes to International Studies. Prerequisite: French
11-204 or equivalent.
11-314 World War II France
This course deals with the collapse of human rights that followed the Nazi occupation of France. It
focuses on the collaborationist stance of those French people who chose to cooperate with the
Nazis and the resistance movement of the French people who decided to fight both the Nazis and
the collaborators. The course goes beyond traditional representations that focus on the role that
white French men played in the conflict by including diverse marginalized groups who were
targeted by the Nazis. Students will closely analyze these topics in acclaimed films and texts of
various genres. Contributes to International Studies. Prerequisite: French 11-204, or equivalent
placement. (H) (WA)
11-334 French Cinema
This course provides an introduction to French cinema. It closely analyzes films from the period
1900-present. Topics encourage students to make interdisciplinary connections regarding social,
political and cultural issues. Students refine their critical thinking and cultural literacy skills,
sharpen their linguistic facility and accuracy, and expand their awareness of the French and
Francophone world. The course also includes practice of essay writing skills as related to
contemporary film. Offerings alternate between French Cinema and Women in/on Film. Develops
intermediate and advanced oral and written proficiencies. May be repeated with change in topic.
Contributes to International Studies. Prerequisite: French 11-204, or equivalent placement. (H)
(WA)
11-344 Francophone Lit From Africa Clnztn & Ind
This course provides an introduction to francophone literature and film. It closely analyzes works
from the period 1900-present. Topics encourage students to grasp colonial and postcolonial
conceptions of identity, gender, and religion, and to track historical patterns of economic
suffering, resistance to colonial rule, racism, and migration. Students refine their critical thinking
and cultural literacy skills, sharpen their linguistic facility and accuracy, practice their writing and
presentation skills, and expand their awareness of francophonie in Africa. Develops intermediate
and advanced oral and written proficiencies. May be repeated with change in topic. Contributes to
International Studies, and Race and Ethnicity Studies/Group-Theme Course. Prerequisite: French
11-204, or equivalent placement. (H) (WA)
11-354 Topics in French Culture
This course closely analyzes French and/or Francophone identities as voiced in authentic materials
including text, images, video, films and music. Focused topics encourage students to make
interdisciplinary connections regarding social, political and cultural issues. Develops intermediate
and advanced cultural proficiencies. Offerings alternate between French Civilization 1: History of
French Culture, French Civilization 2: Contemporary French Culture, and French Civilization 3:
French Food Culture. May be repeated with change in topic. Contributes to International Studies.
Prerequisite: French 11-204, or equivalent placement. (H) (WA)
11-364 Translation and Culture
In this course conducted in French, students learn translation techniques and apply them to media
articles, web content, marketing material, film and literature. Students increase their familiarity
with contemporary French popular culture and current sociocultural trends. They gain practice in
interpreting French concepts and relating them to American equivalents, as well as in analyzing
and applying advanced French grammar. Develops intercultural skills, critical thinking skills and
related oral and written proficiencies at the intermediate to advanced level. Contributes to
International Studies. Prerequisite: French 11-204, or equivalent placement. (H) (WA)
11-514 Studies in French Literature
This course studies selected texts from the modern period, as related to French social, cultural
and literary history. Intensive work supports the development of advanced proficiency. May be
repeated with change in topic. Contributes to International Studies. Prerequisite: One upper-level
French course. (Spring) (H) (WA)
11-604 Topics in Literature and Culture
This course focuses on single authors, movements or themes. Offerings include
Paris/Cities/Parisians, and Plural France. Intensive work supports the development of advanced
proficiency regarding social, cultural and literary contexts. May be repeated with change in topic.
Contributes to International Studies. Prerequisite: One upper-level French course. (Spring) (H)
(WA)
11-614 Texts/Contexts
This course focuses on situating texts relative to specific periods or fields of study, including Pre-
Revolutionary Literature. Intensive work supports the development of advanced proficiency. May
be repeated with change in content. Prerequisite: One course from French 11-314, 11-334, or
11-354. (H) (WA)
11-934 Capstone Seminar
This course fulfills the capstone requirement in French. As an integrative experience, the capstone
challenges students to interrelate knowledge, insights and perspectives gained in their French
studies and in their undergraduate experience. Students will be guided through independent
research and writing that demonstrates advanced proficiency. They will produce an extended
formal research paper and deliver a formal oral presentation introducing their project and its
original analysis to a French-speaking public. (Spring) (H) (WA)