--- Page 1 of 2 ---

southwestern.edu
For Current Students
3–4 minutes
Study Abroad
A semester or summer study abroad program is the best way to
accelerate fluency in French by immersing oneself in the language
and culture. On a personal level, it is also a memorable experience
that is truly transformative and life-changing. Whether students
wish to go to Paris, Provence, a big city, or a small town,provides numerous opportunities for study
abroad in France. Visit the Office of Intercultural Learning to learn
more.
Capstone
Taken in the Senior year, the Capstone is the crowning academic
achievement of all students at Southwestern. For their Capstone,
students who major in French complete a significant research
project of 15+ pages in which they showcase their level of
proficiency in the language and culture, their research prowess,
and their knowledge of the subject matter at hand. For this research
project, students pick a topic of their choice that is connected to a
French course that they are taking that semester. Their assigned
professor guides and mentors them in weekly individual meetings
throughout this semester-long process. The Capstone experience
includes an exciting oral presentation during which the student
publically shares the fruit of their research project with an audience
of faculty, peers, friends, and family.
Click here for an overview of the Capstone and the valuable skills
students build throughout their French studies.
Pi Delta Phi
Students who successfully complete advanced coursework are
eligible to apply for membership to Pi Delta Phi, the National
French Honor Society for students at accredited colleges and
universities.
Funding Opportunities

--- Page 2 of 2 ---

Every year, the French government hires many graduating seniors
to teach English in French schools in France. This professional
opportunity allows graduating students to live in France and make a
modest salary while continuing to practice and learn language and
intercultural skills.
• Teaching Assistant Program in France – for Graduating Seniors
• Fulbright - for Research and Teaching Abroad
Professional Organizations
• American Association of Teachers of French
• American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages
• Women in French
• Modern Language Association
Online Resources
• TV5 MONDE dictionnaire
• Le Trésor de la langue française dictionnaire
• Word Reference