--- Page 1 of 3 ---

MODERNLANGUAGESANDLITERATURESCAPSTONE
I.DescriptionandOverallObjectives
The Modern Languages and Literatures Capstone forthe Chinese,French,and German Programs consists
of a semester-long research project completed under a professor’s supervision, guidance, and mentoring.
With departmentalinvitation,an HonorsCapstonecan takeplaceovertwo semesters.TheMLL Capstone
involves two main components in the target language. With careful and intentional guidance, students
produceasignificantresearchprojectof20+pagesandgiveanoralpresentationthatengagesquestionsin
the target language from an audience. The student as author must formulate a hypothesis, develop a
consistent and purposeful argument, communicate to readers what research methods and tools were used,
indicateresearchresults,andunderscorehowresultswereinterpretedtoaddressthehypothesis.
The overall goal is to practice and refine effective interdisciplinary thinking as it relates to your areas of
interest. Topics covered usually address issues that arise in your culture, film, and literature courses.
Working closely with an MLL professor, you will create, focus, and shape your topic. You will
develop a research question, draft a plan and an outline for addressing that question, seek to
answer the question in your analytical reading and research via primary and secondary source
materials in the target language, write regular section drafts of at least 3-5 pages for weekly or
bimonthly meetings, share and discuss your writing and research progress, add target-language
bibliographic material to your one-to-two-page bibliography, make regular revisions in
consultationwithyourprofessor,andprepareyouroraldefense.
AstudentplanningtocompletetheCapstonechoosesaprofessorwithwhomtowork.Itcanhelptospeak
with the professor about this a semester or two beforehand. Each professor will have her or his own
organizational and mentoring style and methods. For example, where one might provide a broad set of
grading percentages, another might prioritize a two-part grade based on the 20+ page written project and
the oral defense. Participation at Southwestern’s “From Every Voice Symposium” may be encouraged.
Allprofessorswillprovidetheinformationbelowandsharetheirscholarlyinsightsandadvisingwisdom.
YoushouldfeelfreetoconsultatanytimewiththeprofessorsupervisingtheCapstone.Youwillfindthat
the strong study habits developed at Southwestern serve you well in meeting interim and end-of-semester
deadlines. In some cases, submitting certain materials by specific deadlines may be required. For
example, you may be asked to have a prospectus ready by a certain date (including thesis, methodology,
research proposal, literature review, and project significance), or to have a ten-page draft in MLA format
readybymid-semester(includingvariousworkscited).
II.TheCapstoneasOriginalResearch
In MLL, the Capstone student’s hypothesis and analyses map out a new critical horizon. This original
work moves scholarship forward by challenging an audience to consider new perspectives and to think
differently. The research and writing for the Capstone facilitates a level of skill and originality that may
enable future publication of the student’s work. Related outcomes in MLL include new perspectives on
texts, transformative engagements with texts, and interdisciplinary projects for double majors. The
originalityoftheresearchinvolvesappropriatelyrepresentingtheintegrative,interrelatedinsightsbrought
to the interpretation of literature, culture, art, and/or film. In some cases, the original research may
involve accessing archives and making accessible hitherto unknown materials. In other cases, it may
involve collecting interview materials. Students learn to adopt the scholarly methods best suited to
advancing interdisciplinary research. All MLL students completing a Capstone integrate aspects of
previous Southwestern courses. They often integrate other sources of knowledge, such as study abroad
experiencesandcivicengagement.
Originality of research in MLL involves progressing as a reader, writer, and critical thinker according to
2012 ACTFL Proficiency Guidelines (ACTFL = American Council on the Teaching of Foreign
Languages). MLL meets national ACTFL Proficiency Guidelines by offering numerous “Writing
Attentive” courses and by prioritizing throughout its course sequence a progressive strengthening of

--- Page 2 of 3 ---

writing and research skills. In second-year French and German at Southwestern, for example, students
move from meeting practical writing needs at the Intermediate level to beginning their practice of
connected discourse of paragraph length and structure that corresponds to the Advanced level, which
includes demonstrating the ability to develop arguments and construct hypotheses, but perhaps not
consistently across a variety of topics treated abstractly or generally. In third- and fourth-year French and
German courses, students practice a variety of rhetorical structures thatdirect their writing to an audience
at the Superior level. Research and writing tasks for any given third- or fourth-year course continue
practice of Superior-level skills, for example the ability to explain complex matters; to present and
support opinions by developing cogent arguments and hypotheses; and to consistently structure and
connect paragraphs that treat a variety of social, academic, and professional topics with intellectual
sophistication, moving beyond the concrete to the abstract. MLL Capstone research is designed to then
move students to the Distinguished level. Though not necessarily attained as an undergraduate, this level
includes carrying out formal writing tasks such as position papers and journal articles. Students who
demonstrate Distinguished level proficiency can write analytically and with intellectual rigor on
professional, academic, and societal issues. In addition, Distinguished-level writers are able to address
world issues in a highly conceptualized fashion, using persuasive and hypothetical discourse as
representationaltechniqueswhilecommunicatingsubtletiesandnuancesofopinion.
III.ScholarlySkills
To formulate a research question; to refine and expand the research question; to argue persuasively,
fluidly, and with complex analytical insight in the target language; to read, analyze, paraphrase,
synthesize, cite, and critique complex texts in the target language; to incorporate multiple kinds of
evidencepurposefullyinordertogenerateandsupportwriting;tocraftargumentsthatmatterinacademic
contexts; to skillfully structure a paper’s organization; to effectively compile bibliographic materials; to
develop flexible strategies for revising, editing, and proofreading writing; to demonstrate an awareness of
the strategies writers use in different contexts; to demonstrate satisfactory oral and written proficiency
according to ACTFL criteria, including well developed presentation and argumentation skills; to field
questionsbasedonindependentwritingandresearch.
IV.GeneralSkills
•Developaninitialquestion,paperstructure,andoutline
•Createafolderwhereyouwillregularlysavefiles
•Backupyourfilesregularlyinseparatelocations(computer,flashdrive,cloud,etc.)
•Findprimarysourcesandtextualevidencetosupportyourhypotheses
•Locatesecondarysourcestosupportyourhypotheses
•IdentifyyourInterlibaryLoanneedsearlyinthesemester
•Considersociohistoricalcontext
•Considerthecontextofexperts’ideas,methods,andassumptions
•Consideryourreader,whooftenasksthatyoujustify,explain,argue,andconvince,clearlyand
elegantly,withstrongattentiontotheoverallorganizationandflowofideas
•Craftaclear,focused,originalresearchquestion
•Followthequestionasitevolvesthroughyourthinkingandresearch–adaptasnecessary
•Stayfocusedonthemethodsthatworkbestforyou–sticktoaplantogeneratesteadycontent
•Useavarietyofprimaryandsecondarysources
•Balanceyouruseofdifferentmediaasappropriate–articles,books,films,webmaterial,etc.
•Graduallyexpandyourlistofresearchsources
•Readwisely–sometimesslowlyandcarefully,sometimesfocusedonanIntroductionorConclusion
•Followtheexperts’trail–findbooksandarticlesmentionedintheirnotesorbibliographies

--- Page 3 of 3 ---

•Trytoparaphraseandsynthesize–explainingsomeone’sideasandtheirrelevanceisaskillthat
complementslocatingandcitingthoseideas
•Takecarefulnotes–citeeachandeverysourceusedassoonasyouuseit
•Citejudiciously–nottoomuchortoolittle,andalwaysexplainingcitations’relevance
•BuildaWorksCitedlistsystematically–startrightawaywithafewandbuildmomentum
V.HonorCode:“Ihaveactedwithhonestyandintegrityinproducingthisworkandamunaware
ofanyonewhohasnot.”
It is fine and normal for the Capstone to discuss your work with your professor, to ask for comments and
suggestions, and to incorporate suggestions. For this assignment, the first part of the pledge regarding
“honesty and integrity” refers to a) relying on strong sources for your written work, b) not using any
materialwithoutcitingyoursource(s),c)usingasappropriateonlyanonlineorprintdictionarytolookup
a term or phrase and not an internet translator or other translation software, and d) communicating
respectfully and consistently with your professor. Please feel free to share any comments, questions or
concernsbeforewritingtheHonorCodePledgeonyourfinaldraftofthisassignment.