--- Page 1 of 1 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Home /History /Courses
HHHHIIIISSSSTTTTOOOORRRRYYYY
HHHHIIIISSSSTTTTOOOORRRRYYYY
Our Faculty Courses
Majoring & Minoring
Below you will find a list of our current or recent offerings. See the course catalog for descriptions and
CCCCoooouuuurrrrsssseeeessss
updated information.
For Current Students
11116666----000011114444 DDDDiiiisssseeeeaaaasssseeee,,,, HHHHeeeeaaaalllltttthhhh &&&& MMMMeeeeddddiiiicccciiiinnnneeee iiiinnnn WWWWoooorrrrlllldddd HHHHiiiisssstttt
Special Opportunities
What is disease? How have different cultures experienced and responded to it? Using case studies
from Africa, Europe, Asia, and the Americas, this course examines global ecological changes and
Resources & Facilities
global human exchanges as a key factor in the spread of epidemic disease. It also highlights the
News & Events
role of medical and scientific knowledge in the human responses to disease. We explore the
Notable Faculty & Student
changing notions of the body's anatomy and physiology; the role of the environment; the
Achievements
interaction between healers, doctors, and patients; the nature of different therapeutic approaches;
and the structure of health care institutions. Contributes to Environmental Studies, Health Studies,
International Studies, and Spanish for Healthcare Professions Certificate. (Annually) (H)
11116666----000022224444 EEEEmmmmppppiiiirrrreeeessss &&&& EEEEmmmmppppiiiirrrreeeessss ooooffff MMMMiiiinnnndddd iiiinnnn WWWWoooorrrrlllldddd HHHHiiiisssstttt
This course traces the evolution of a variety of empires (real or imagined), from the pre-Columbian
indigenous, Iberian, French, British, and Dutch empires through the Age of Revolutions, the rise of
industry, capitalism, nationalist movements, World Wars, and communism. We will conclude with
the process of decolonization and the possible development of an American Empire and other new
kinds of empires. Empires, very broadly construed, will be our lens to interpret world history.
Fulfills the pre-/early modern requirement in the History major. Contributes to Design Thinking
and International Studies (Annually) (H)
11116666----000033334444 NNNNaaaattttiiiioooonnnnssss aaaannnndddd NNNNaaaattttiiiioooonnnnaaaalllliiiissssmmmm iiiinnnn WWWWoooorrrrlllldddd HHHHiiiissssttttoooorrrryyyy
This course investigates the development of national identities around the world and the
nationalisms that describe or defend them. This course investigates the development of national
identities around the world and the nationalisms that describe or defend them. Through a series of
national case-studies, it explores how nations are defined, whether nations are natural expressions
of human community, why nationalism has often led to violence, and what the future may be for
the nation-state. Contributes to International Studies, Race and Ethnicity Studies/Allied Course,
and Legal Studies Certificate. (Annually) (H)
11116666----000044444444 SSSSiiiillllkkkk RRRRooooaaaaddddssss iiiinnnn WWWWoooorrrrlllldddd HHHHiiiissssttttoooorrrryyyy
This course introduces the world of premodern Eurasia by tracing transregional connections from
the domestication of the horse by Inner Asian nomads to the Eurasian conquest of the Mongol
Empire. We discuss mass migrations, individual travels, military conquest and virus transmission,
as well as arenas of interaction such as monasteries, courts, ships, and caravans. By tracing
objects, stories, and ideas, this class explores the Silk Road, a pre-Columbus global network of
exchange, and other Silk Roads, to uncover world history as a network of overlapping links rather
than a collection of national narratives. Fulfills the pre-/early modern requirement in the History
major. Contributes to International Studies. (Annually) (H)
11116666----000055554444 FFFFoooooooodddd aaaannnndddd SSSSoooocccciiiieeeettttyyyy iiiinnnn WWWWoooorrrrlllldddd HHHHiiiissssttttoooorrrryyyy
This class explores the development of global society through the lens of food and culinary
experiences. It uses primary and secondary sources to examine how different factors have
historically shaped the development and nature of foodscapes globally. It pays attention to the key
historiographical debates and seminal turning points, showing the shifts and continuities within
social, economic and environmental appreciation of food by society. We steer through emotive
themes including race, indigeneity and belonging, colonialism, nutrition, gender and climate
change. This course will show how world foodscapes demonstrate the complex, yet colorful
realities and cosmology of society. Contributes to Environmental Studies. (Annually) (H)
11116666----000099994444 TTTTooooppppiiiiccccssss iiiinnnn WWWWoooorrrrlllldddd HHHHiiiissssttttoooorrrryyyy
This course offers an alternative thematic approach to the study of societies, cultures, and
civilizations around the world and their interactions. May be repeated with change in topic.
Contributes to International Studies. (Biennially) (H)
11116666----111111114444 HHHHiiiissssttttoooorrrryyyy ooooffff MMMMooooddddeeeerrrrnnnn AAAAffffrrrriiiiccccaaaa
This class explores the social, economic and political history of modern African societies since
1800. It provides a thorough appreciation of the multiple and complex dynamics that shape the
nature and experiences of different African communities over time and space. It unpacks the
shifting contours of social, economic, environmental, and political development before, during and
after colonization. The course engages with varying themes including, colonization, gender,
economic and political development and nationalism. This course aims to make the continent
more recognizable to us. Contributes to International Studies, and Race and Ethnicity
Studies/Group-Theme Course. (Biennially) (H)
11116666----111122224444 HHHHiiiissssttttoooorrrryyyy ooooffff EEEEaaaasssstttt AAAAssssiiiiaaaa ttttoooo 1111888800000000
This course introduces the East Asian civilization from its beginnings to the eve of the modern age.
Covering the histories of the current nation-states China, Korea, and Japan, this course explores
transregional processes that help define East Asia as a unit of historical inquiry. Major themes
include political history, ethnic discourses and practices, the localization of Buddhism, indigenous
religions, inter-state relations, urban life, gender, family, and intellectual change. These themes
allow us to deliberate the formation of the East Asian world and the exchanges of the premodern
era. Fulfills the pre-/early modern requirement in the History major. Contributes to Early Modern
and Medieval Studies, East Asian Studies, and International Studies. (Biennially) (H)
11116666----111133334444 HHHHiiiissssttttoooorrrryyyy ooooffff EEEEaaaasssstttt AAAAssssiiiiaaaa SSSSiiiinnnncccceeee 1111888800000000
This course introduces students to the inter-related histories of China, Japan, and Korea since
1800 until the present day. Major topics include cultural exchanges, revolutions, war, imperialism,
colonialism, and Cold War geopolitics. While globalizing forces oversaw the convergence of East
Asia and European imperialism, politicians, intellectuals, and even commoners began to imagine
themselves as members of distinct nations. By placing the emergence of East Asian nation-states
and the interactions among them within the context of an increasingly connected world, we explore
the making of the modern East Asian world. Contributes to East Asian Studies and International
Studies. (Biennially) (H)
11116666----111144444444 HHHHiiiissssttttoooorrrryyyy ooooffff CCCCoooolllloooonnnniiiiaaaallll LLLLaaaattttiiiinnnn AAAAmmmmeeeerrrriiiiccccaaaa
This course explores the individual, social, cultural, and political experiences of Africans,
Europeans, and Native Americans between the apogee of the Aztecs, Incas, and Mayas and the
Creole wars of independence of the 19th century. By examining pre-Colombian states, early
European explorations, la conquista, the settlement of mostly Spanish but also Portuguese and
other European colonies, and the responses of a diverse group of local inhabitants, this course
shows that Latin American societies resulted from complex processes of colonization, exploitation,
and resistance. Fulfills the pre-/early modern requirement in the History major. Contributes to
Early Modern and Medieval Studies, Health Studies, International Studies, Latin American and
Border Studies, and Race and Ethnicity Studies/Group-Theme Course. (Biennially) (H)
11116666----111155554444 HHHHiiiissssttttoooorrrryyyy ooooffff MMMMooooddddeeeerrrrnnnn LLLLaaaattttiiiinnnn AAAAmmmmeeeerrrriiiiccccaaaa
After their independence in the early 19th century, Latin American countries faced the challenge
to become nations. This course surveys the many paths that these countries followed, including
the rise of nationalism and its overcoming by the neocolonial order, the revolutionary option in
Mexico, Cuba, and Nicaragua during the 20th century, the authoritarian responses to national
discontent, and the rise of neoliberalism. It also explores how these trends transformed the
society, culture, economy, and policies at the local level in response to both national and
international influences. Contributes to International Studies, Latin American and Border Studies,
and Race and Ethnicity Studies/Group-Theme Course. (Biennially) (H)
11116666----111166664444 HHHHiiiisssstttt ooooffff UUUUSSSS:::: FFFFrrrroooommmm CCCCoooolllloooonnnniiiieeeessss ttttoooo NNNNaaaattttiiiioooonnnn
This course surveys the political, social, cultural and intellectual history of early America, from the
beginnings of European settlement to the eve of the Civil War. It focuses on several central issues
that emerged in early American society and that continue to affect the United States today. These
include the meaning of equality and freedom, ideas redefined over time in relationship to changing
ideas about slavery, political authority, and the creation of governments, conceptualizing American
identity, and constructing political authority. Citizenship, revolution, popular sovereignty, and the
role of minority opinions in a democracy are major topics explored. Fulfills the pre-/early modern
requirement in the History major. Contributes to Early Modern and Medieval Studies, and Legal
Studies Certificate. (Biennially) (H)
11116666----111177774444 HHHHiiiisssstttt ooooffff UUUU....SSSS....:::: FFFFrrrroooommmm NNNNaaaattttiiiioooonnnn ttttoooo WWWWrrrrlllldddd PPPPoooowwwweeeerrrr
This course surveys major political, economic, social, cultural and diplomatic developments in the
United States from the end of the Civil War to the present. Course topics include the role of the
individual in the state and the state in society, the meaning of equality and freedom, and the
United States' role in the world. (Biennially) (H)
11116666----111188884444 HHHHiiiissssttttoooorrrryyyy ooooffff EEEEaaaarrrrllllyyyy MMMMooooddddeeeerrrrnnnn EEEEuuuurrrrooooppppeeee
This course explores and questions the concept of the early modern period of European history,
from the close of the fifteenth to the dawn of the nineteenth century. Students will examine
political, cultural, and intellectual developments from the period of feudalism to the modernity
ushered in by Atlantic-wide revolutions. The course will examine Renaissance art and theory,
Reformation and confessional tumult, sovereignty and expansion. Fulfills the pre-/early modern
requirement in the History major. Contributes to Early Modern and Medieval Studies and
International Studies. (Biennially) (H)
11116666----111199994444 HHHHiiiissssttttoooorrrryyyy ooooffff MMMMooooddddeeeerrrrnnnn EEEEuuuurrrrooooppppeeee
This course surveys the history of Europe from the late eighteenth century revolutions through the
creation and expansion of the European Union. It explores social, political, intellectual, and
cultural developments, paying particular attention to reform movements and revolutions. The
course tracks shifting ideas of gender, race, and class, as well as examining Europe's role in the
world. Contributes to Data Analytics, Data Science, Feminist Studies, and International Studies.
(Biennially) (H)
11116666----222200004444 AAAAffffrrrriiiiccccaaaannnn EEEEnnnnvvvviiiirrrroooonnnnmmmmeeeennnnttttaaaallll HHHHiiiissssttttoooorrrryyyy
Agriculture and resource extraction are the economic, cultural and political mainstay of many
African economies. Their development and exploitation have varyingly contributed towards the
shaping of the environmental landscape of the continent. Relying on primary and secondary
sources, this class explores Africa's environmental history tracing the shifting contours of social,
political, economic as well as environmental movements over time and space. It engages with
varying emotive and contested themes including, (white settler) colonization, agrarian and
environmental reform and policy, gender and society, imperialism, resource extraction, climate
change as well as race and ethnicity politics. The course aims to make the environmental realities
more recognizable to us. Contributes to Environmental Studies, International Studies, and Race
and Ethnicity Studies/Group-Theme Course. (Biennially) (H)
11116666----222233334444 NNNNoooommmmaaaaddddiiiicccc EEEEmmmmppppiiiirrrreeeessss:::: BBBBaaaarrrrbbbbaaaarrrriiiiaaaannnnssss
In the histories of their sedentary neighbors, nomadic groups across Eurasia (including the
Mongols and Uyghurs) have often been portrayed as barbarians, minimized to the role of mere
outsiders separated by the curtain of civilization. This course puts the nomads of Eastern Eurasia
on center stage in a multiethnic setting teeming with the exchange of sedentary and nomadic
culture. By examining the nomadic way of life and mode of state building, we explore how nomads
served as agents of change and influenced pre-modern Eastern Eurasia. Fulfills the pre-/early
modern requirement in the History major. Contributes to Classics, Early Modern and Medieval
Studies, East Asian Studies, International Studies, and Race and Ethnicity Studies/Allied course.
(Biennially) (H)
11116666----222244444444 DDDDoooocccciiiilllleeee OOOOrrrr DDDDeeeevvvviiiiaaaannnntttt WWWWoooommmmeeeennnn GGGGeeeennnnddddeeeerrrr SSSSeeeexxxx CCCChhhhiiiinnnnaaaa
This course explores the history of women and sexuality in China from the early ages to the
modern era. By framing women as central figures in the formation of Chinese societies, states, and
empires throughout history, we examine diverse female lives through the exploration of key
Chinese texts and primary sources written for, by, and about women, which will provide insights
into how women made contributions to their societies. This study of gender covers various topics
including family, marriage, politics, gendered body, and same-sex relations. Fulfills the pre-/early
modern requirement in the History major. Contributes to Early Modern and Medieval Studies, East
Asian Studies, Feminist Studies, and International Studies. (Biennially) (H)
11116666----222266664444 LLLLaaaattttiiiinnnn AAAAmmmmeeeerrrriiiiccccaaaannnn HHHHiiiisssstttt iiiinnnn FFFFiiiillllmmmm &&&& LLLLiiiitttteeeerrrraaaattttuuuurrrreeee
Telling the history of Latin America poses challenges because the region's own definition lies
between what its inhabitants have been told about their past and what they know is their past.
Films and novels capture some subtleties that lay between institutional and lived history, official
and personal history, and history and memory. Using a selection of films and novels that focus on
particular historical episodes from colonial times to the early twenty-first century, this course
examines these subtleties and their relevance to understanding current transformations in Latin
American societies. Contributes to International Studies, Latin American and Border Studies, and
Race and Ethnicity Studies/Group-Theme Course. (Biennially) (H) (SJ) (PJ)
11116666----222277774444 RRRReeeepppprrrroooodddduuuuccccttttiiiivvvveeee HHHHiiiissssttttoooorrrriiiieeeessss iiiinnnn LLLLaaaattttiiiinnnn AAAAmmmmeeeerrrriiiiccccaaaa
This course uses human reproduction and reproductive labor to examine the material conditions
and processes that have shaped Latin American societies since pre-colonial times. Human bodies
have sustained altepetls, ayllus, empires, colonies, and nation-states. Consequently, the way
societies conceive, support, and regulate the production of these bodies as well as the way these
societies challenge and resist such notions define the societies' own structure and function. The
case studies examined in this course illustrate regional trends and local variations in Latin
American reproductive histories. This course has a community-engaged learning (CEL)
component. Contributes to Health Studies, International Studies, Latin American and Border
Studies, Race and Ethnicity Studies/Group-Theme Course, and Spanish for Healthcare Professions
Certificate. (Biennially) (H) (SJ) (PJ)
11116666----222288884444 TTTThhhheeee MMMMeeeexxxxiiiiccccaaaannnn RRRReeeevvvvoooolllluuuuttttiiiioooonnnn
The Mexican Revolution was a fiesta of bullets that transformed Mexico and launched the 20th
century. Using the Mexican Revolution as the event that shaped Mexican history throughout the
20th century, this course examines the conditions that mobilized Mexican such as Madero, Zapata,
and Villa into a civil war in 1910 and that ended up with a new Constitution in 1917, the
challenges, successes, and failures to create institutions that implemented the revolutionary values
during the 1920s and 30s, and the value of the Revolution to promote social and political change
in the second half of the 20th century. Contributes to International Studies, and Latin American
and Border Studies. (Biennially) (H) (SJ) (PJ)
11116666----222299994444 TTTTeeeexxxxaaaassss HHHHiiiissssttttoooorrrryyyy
This course explores major social, political, economic, and cultural developments in the history of
Texas from contact through World War II. Focusing particular attention on the 19th century, it
places the development of the borderlands region at the intersection of various European, North
America, and Native American powers, emphasizing the continued importance of transnational
currents in the making of a multi-ethnic and multi-cultural Texas into the twentieth century.
Contributes to Latin American and Border Studies . (H)
11116666----333311114444 HHHHiiiissssttttoooorrrryyyy ooooffff CCCCiiiivvvviiiillll RRRRiiiigggghhhhttttssss MMMMoooovvvveeeemmmmeeeennnntttt
This course explores the history of the Black Freedom struggle in the twentieth century United
States. Moving beyond the classic Heroic Era of the civil rights (from Brown v. Board of Education
to the Voting Rights Act), it examines social, cultural, and political protests from the consolidation
of Jim Crow through founding of Black Lives Matter. Contributes to Feminist Studies, Race and
Ethnicity Studies/Group-Theme Course, and Legal Studies Certificate. (Biennially) (H) (SJ) (PJ)
11116666----333322224444 RRRRiiiisssseeee ooooffff RRRRiiiigggghhhhtttt:::: HHHHiiiisssstttt CCCCnnnnssssrrrrvvvvttttvvvv MMMMvvvvmmmmnnnntttt UUUU....SSSS....
This course will examine the history of the conservative movement in the United States from the
late 19th century through the election of Donald Trump. Blending chronological and thematic
organization, it will examine topics that include Social Darwinism and anti-Progressive politics,
business and the New Deal state and the emergence of libertarianism, McCarthyism and the
Fourth Great Awakening after World War II, the Goldwater movement, racial backlash and the
Silent Majority, the Tax Revolt of the 1970s, the Reagan years, the culture wars, before moving to
more recent developments. Contributes to Legal Studies Certificate. (Biennially) (H)
11116666----333333334444 SSSSppppoooorrrrtttt aaaannnndddd SSSSoooocccciiiieeeettttyyyy iiiinnnn MMMMooooddddeeeerrrrnnnn AAAAmmmmeeeerrrriiiiccccaaaa
This course uses the social, cultural, and political history of sport to examine American history
from the 1830s to the present. It considers the emergence and development of modern athletics in
connection to broader questions of gender and sexuality, masculinity and femininity, labor and
politics, race and ethnicity, immigration and Americanization. Contributes to Applied Movement
and Sport Studies, Exercise Sport Studies, Feminist Studies, Health Studies, and Race and
Ethnicity Studies/Allied Course. (Biennially) (H)
11116666----333344444444 HHHHiiiissssttttoooorrrryyyy ooooffff tttthhhheeee UUUU....SSSS.... WWWWeeeesssstttt
This course focuses on the history of the U.S. West as both frontier and region, real and imagined,
from the mid-19th century onward. It considers topics such as Indian Removal, wars of conquest,
immigration and migration, urban frontiers, environmental change, and the myth of the frontier. It
especially highlights the intersections of race, gender, class, nationality and the environment.
Course objectives include learning to interpret varied forms of historical evidence and fostering
analytical, reading, discussion and synthetic skills that will help students think and communicate
critically about historical and contemporary society and politics. Contributes to Environmental
Studies and Race and Ethnicity Studies/Allied Course. (Biennially) (H)
11116666----333366664444 SSSSllllaaaavvvveeeerrrryyyy &&&& FFFFrrrreeeeeeeeddddoooommmm iiiinnnn tttthhhheeee AAAAttttllllaaaannnnttttiiiicccc WWWWoooorrrrlllldddd
This class examines the long history of slavery in modern society. It shows how the historical
practice of slavery has shaped societal race, gender, environmental, socio-economic, and political
landscapes. It engages the contentious debates, legacies and impacts of slavery on global
communities. It examines how profoundly different perspectives on slavery have been captured,
engaged, preserved, and expressed over time and space. It illuminates the social and economic
bonds between Africa, Europe and the Americas, to show how slavery is not just a history of
oppression, but equally a story of agency, indigeneity, development, and survival. Fulfills the pre-
/early modern requirement in the History major. Contributes to International Studies and Race
and Ethnicity Studies/Group-Theme Course. (Biennially) (H)
11116666----333377774444 HHHHiiiissssttttoooorrrryyyy ooooffff tttthhhheeee IIIIssssllllaaaammmmiiiicccc WWWWoooorrrrlllldddd
This course traces the development of Islamic societies and cultures throughout the world from
Mohammad's seventh-century revelations to the present. Topics include Islamic empires, relations
with other groups, art and architecture, science and philosophy, evolution and adaptation. Fulfills
the pre-/early modern requirement in the History major. Contributes to International Studies.
(Biennially) (H)
11116666----333388884444 SSSScccciiiieeeennnncccceeee aaaannnndddd IIIIttttssss PPPPuuuubbbblllliiiiccccssss
This course explores the relationship between science, technology, and medicine and their publics
since the Early Modern period to our recent past. Drawing from case studies that examine the role
of scientific societies, formal education, textbooks, popular literature, publicity, and other formal
and informal means to disseminate knowledge, students will understand the changing relationship
between science and the public sphere, the role that the popularization of science plays in
democratic societies, and the impact of popular science and the public perception of science in the
production of new scientific knowledge. Contributes to International Studies. (Biennially) (H)
11116666----333399994444 WWWWiiiittttcccchhhheeeessss,,,, NNNNuuuunnnnssss,,,, PPPPrrrroooossssttttiiiittttuuuueeeessss,,,, WWWWiiiivvvveeeessss &&&& QQQQuuuueeeeeeeennnn
WITCHES, NUNS, PROSTITUTES, WIVES, AND QUEENS: WOMEN & GENDER IN THE BRITISH
WORLD. This course explores the multifaceted experiences of women in the British World, from
the medieval era to the present. We consider how gender and sexuality have been constructed
differently over time and space; the role of churches, states, and empires in defining and
proscribing sexual activity, masculinity, and femininity; the social and political expectations placed
upon men and women; cultural representations and manifestations of gender and sexuality; the
intersection of gender and other categories of difference; and how pivotal, transnational historical
events like the Reformation and decolonization affected women and notions of gender. Fulfills the
pre-/early modern requirement in the History major. Contributes to Early Modern and Medieval
Studies, Feminist Studies, and International Studies. (Biennially) (H)
11116666----444400004444 HHHHiiiissssttttoooorrrryyyy ooooffff tttthhhheeee BBBBrrrriiiittttiiiisssshhhh IIIIsssslllleeeessss SSSSiiiinnnncccceeee 1111666688888888
This course examines the British Isles since the Glorious Revolution via political, social, cultural,
and intellectual lenses, integrating imperial and oceanic perspectives. It explores how British
inhabitants formed, developed, and governed four distinct nations (England, Ireland, Scotland, and
Wales) as part of a single kingdom, constructing one of the most powerful empires of the modern
age, leaving a profound legacy in a globalized, post-colonial world. Contributes to International
Studies and Legal Studies Certificate. (Biennially) (H)
11116666----444411114444 MMMMooooddddeeeerrrrnnnn FFFFrrrraaaannnncccceeee aaaannnndddd EEEEmmmmppppiiiirrrreeee
This course investigates French history from 1789 to the present, charting political, social, and
cultural developments within France and determining the extent to which these altered, or were
influenced by, events outside the borders of the French mainland-in the Empire or in foreign
relations. The course pays particular attention to attempts to define French identity within a global
context. Contributes to Design Thinking and International Studies. (Biennially) (H)
11116666----444422224444 RRRReeeeaaaallll GGGGaaaammmmeeee TTTThhhhrrrroooonnnneeeessss:::: MMMMeeeeddddiiiieeeevvvvaaaallll EEEErrrraaaa iiiinnnn HHHHiiiisssstttt
This course will chart the development of European society, culture, and politics from ca. 1000 to
1500, from British, European, Atlantic and global perspectives. We will study the combination of
legend and history manifest in contemporary and modern appraisals of an era when lines between
reality and lore, truth and superstition, secular and spiritual were blurred. Fulfills the pre-/early
modern requirement in the History major. Contributes to Classics, Early Modern and Medieval
Studies and International Studies. (Biennially) (H)
11116666----444433334444 TTTThhhheeee HHHHiiiissssttttoooorrrryyyy ooooffff EEEEuuuurrrrooooppppeeee''''ssss MMMMuuuusssslllliiiimmmmssss
This course traces the history of Muslim-European relationships from the early Islamic empires in
Andalusia, through European imperial experiences with Muslims around the world, to the more
recent reception of Muslim migrants on European soil. The course questions the intellectual and
political utility of defining populations of such cultural, linguistic, and geographical breadth solely
by their religion; discusses the development of a European Islam; and debates the existence of a
clash of civilizations or a shared Mediterranean culture. Contributes to International Studies, and
Race and Ethnicity Studies/Group-Theme Course. (Biennially) (H) (SJ) (PJ)
11116666----444444444444 TTTThhhheeee TTTTuuuuddddoooorrrrssss:::: PPPPoooolllliiiittttiiiiccccssss &&&& CCCCuuuullllttttuuuurrrreeee 1111444488885555----1111666600003333
This course examines the Tudor dynasty, an age of personal monarchy, tyranny, national
consolidation, imperial expansion, patriarchy and the rule of wealthy courtiers. Students will
explore how the Tudor-Stewart revolution in politics and culture fundamentally transformed
Britain and Ireland, with great consequences for the world beyond its borders, between the
accession of Henry VII and the death of Elizabeth I. Fulfills the pre-/early modern requirement in
the History major. Contributes to Early Modern and Medieval Studies, Feminist Studies, and
International Studies. (Biennially) (H)
11116666----444455554444 HHHHiiiissssttttoooorrrriiiieeeessss ooooffff RRRRaaaacccceeee iiiinnnn EEEEuuuurrrrooooppppeeee
This course explores developing categories of race within European contexts and highlights the
experiences of diverse racial and ethnic groups on the European continent. After considering the
Classical world, it moves to the Renaissance and Enlightenment as major moments for developing
racial ideas and hierarchies. From there, it examines both the growth of overseas imperialism and
racial projects within the European continent, alongside anti-racist and anti-colonial movements.
Finally, it considers race, national identity, citizenship, migration, and culture in contemporary
Europe. Contributes to International Studies, and Race and Ethnicity Studies/Group/Theme.
(Biennially) (H)
11116666----444466664444 HHHHiiiissssttttoooorrrryyyy ooooffff HHHHuuuummmmaaaannnn RRRRiiiigggghhhhttttssss
This course traces the origins of contemporary human rights debates from ancient traditions,
through the Enlightenment and the abolition of slavery, to the signing of the Universal Declaration
of Human Rights, global movements for decolonization, and the present day. It tracks both
gradually expanding notions of rights and changing understandings of who counts as human. The
course includes discussions of political and civil rights, social and economic rights, gender and
sexuality rights, minority rights, cultural rights, and environmental rights (among many others).
Contributes to Data Science, Feminist Studies, International Studies, and Legal Studies Certificate.
(Biennially) (H) (SJ)(PJ)
11116666----555500004444 TTTTooooppppiiiiccccssss iiiinnnn AAAAffffrrrriiiiccccaaaannnn HHHHiiiissssttttoooorrrryyyy
Thematic courses with a focus on African history. May be repeated with change in topic.
Contributes to International Studies. (H)
11116666----555511114444 TTTTooooppppiiiiccccssss iiiinnnn AAAAssssiiiiaaaannnn HHHHiiiissssttttoooorrrryyyy
Thematic courses with a focus on Asian history. May be repeated with change in topic. Contributes
to East Asian Studies and International Studies. (H)
11116666----555522224444 TTTTooooppppiiiiccccssss iiiinnnn LLLLaaaattttiiiinnnn AAAAmmmmeeeerrrriiiiccccaaaannnn HHHHiiiissssttttoooorrrryyyy
Thematic courses with a focus on Latin American history. May be repeated with change in topic.
Contributes to International Studies. (H)
11116666----555533334444 TTTTooooppppiiiiccccssss iiiinnnn UUUU....SSSS.... HHHHiiiissssttttoooorrrryyyy
Thematic courses with a focus on U.S. history. May be repeated with change in topic. (H)
11116666----555544444444 TTTTooooppppiiiiccccssss iiiinnnn TTTTrrrraaaannnnssssrrrreeeeggggiiiioooonnnnaaaallll HHHHiiiissssttttoooorrrryyyy
Thematic courses with a comparative or transregional theme (covering at least three different
world regions). May be repeated with change in topic. Contributes to International Studies. (H)
11116666----555555554444 TTTTooooppppiiiiccccssss iiiinnnn EEEEuuuurrrrooooppppeeeeaaaannnn HHHHiiiissssttttoooorrrryyyy
Thematic courses with a focus on European history. May be repeated with change in topic.
Contributes to International Studies. (H)
11116666----555566664444 TTTTooooppppiiiiccccssss iiiinnnn HHHHiiiisssstttt ooooffff SSSScccciiiieeeennnncccceeee,,,, TTTTeeeecccchhhh,,,, &&&& MMMMeeeedddd
These courses investigate the historical relationship between humans and nature. Every version of
the course will emphasize how broader historical contexts have shaped human knowledge of
nature, exploring the changing interrelationship between scientific knowledge, society, and culture
across time and space. May be repeated with change in topic. Contributes to Health Studies.
(Biennially) (H)
11116666----666600004444 HHHHiiiissssttttoooorrrriiiiooooggggrrrraaaapppphhhhyyyy
A study of the concept of history, the history of historical writing, the major schools of historical
interpretation today and the relation of history to the philosophy of history. Prerequisite: 16-014,
16-024, 16-034, 16-044, 16-054 or 16-094; and must have junior status or permission of
instructor. (Fall) (H) (WA)
11116666----888866664444 RRRReeeesssseeeeaaaarrrrcccchhhh SSSSeeeemmmmiiiinnnnaaaarrrr
Topics, which change from semester to semester, include: History and Memory, Transnational
Histories, and Science, Society, and the State. Prerequisite: History 16-604. (Spring)(H)(WA)
11116666----999977771111 PPPPrrrreeee----HHHHoooonnnnoooorrrrssss
By invitation only. Students will work closely with a faculty mentor to prepare a formal prospectus
and annotated bibliography that outline the historical problem to be researched, offer a
preliminary literature review of the subject, and suggest the methodology and organization for a
full Honors project to be carried out the following year.
SSSSEEEEEEEE YYYYOOOOUUUURRRRSSSSEEEELLLLFFFF AAAATTTT SSSSUUUU FFFFOOOOLLLLLLLLOOOOWWWW UUUUSSSS
RRRREEEEQQQQUUUUEEEESSSSTTTT IIIINNNNFFFFOOOO
GGGGEEEEOOOORRRRGGGGEEEETTTTOOOOWWWWNNNN,,,, TTTTEEEEXXXXAAAASSSS |||| 555511112222....888866663333....6666555511111111
UUUUNNNNIIIIVVVVEEEERRRRSSSSIIIITTTTYYYY PPPPRRRROOOOFFFFIIIILLLLEEEE HHHHEEEELLLLPPPPFFFFUUUULLLL LLLLIIIINNNNKKKKSSSS CCCCOOOONNNNTTTTAAAACCCCTTTT SSSSUUUU
MMMMiiiissssssssiiiioooonnnn,,,, PPPPuuuurrrrppppoooosssseeee,,,, aaaannnndddd PPPPrrrriiiivvvvaaaaccccyyyy PPPPoooolllliiiiccccyyyy CCCCoooonnnnttttaaaacccctttt UUUUssss
VVVVaaaalllluuuueeeessss
WWWWoooorrrrkkkk aaaatttt SSSSUUUU DDDDiiiirrrreeeeccccttttoooorrrryyyy
EEEEddddiiiittttoooorrrr LLLLooooggggiiiinnnn
CCCCHHHHAAAATTTT PPPPRRRROOOOVVVVIIIIDDDDEEEERRRR
LLLLiiiivvvveeeeCCCChhhhaaaatttt