--- Page 1 of 3 ---

Home /History /Notable Faculty & Student Achievements
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
HHHHIIIISSSSTTTTOOOORRRRYYYY
Our Faculty
HHHHIIIISSSSTTTTOOOORRRRYYYY
Notable Faculty & Student Achievements
Majoring & Minoring
Courses
For Current Students
MMMMaaaarrrrcccchhhh 2222000022226666
Special Opportunities
Assistant Professor of History Soojung Han presented the paper “Identity Changes of the Elite Xianbei in Medieval China” at
Resources & Facilities
the Association for Asian Studies (AAS) 2026 Annual Meeting in Vancouver, Canada.
News & Events
NNNNoooottttaaaabbbblllleeee FFFFaaaaccccuuuullllttttyyyy &&&&
SSSSttttuuuuddddeeeennnntttt AAAAcccchhhhiiiieeeevvvveeeemmmmeeeennnnttttssss
Assistant Professor of History Soojung Han was invited to give a talk titled “From Kin to Pseudo-Kin: The Transformation of
Kinship Politics and Diplomacy from the Early Medieval Period to the Liao–Song–Jin Era” at The Great Entanglement:
Reframing East Eurasian Histories in the Longue Durée workshop hosted by the University of British Columbia in Vancouver,
Canada. The workshop was sponsored by the University of British Columbia, Cornell University, and the James P. Geiss &
Margaret Y. Hsu Foundation.
Professor of History Melissa Byrnes took part in two roundtable sessions at the Society for French Historical Studies annual
conference. For “Writing the French Empire Today,” she spoke about her 2023 book, Making Space: Neighbors, Officials, and
North African Migrants in the Suburbs of Paris and Lyon (University of Nebraska). As part of “French History in the Small
Liberal Arts Classroom,” she discussed “Using France to Teach about Race.”
Assistant Vice President for Academic Affairs and Professor of History Jessica Hower gave an invited talk titled “‘Bring[ing]
Up the Bodies’: Queenship in History, Fiction, and the Public” at the Huntington Library in San Marino, CA.
FFFFeeeebbbbrrrruuuuaaaarrrryyyy 2222000022226666
Assistant Professor of History Bryan Kauma published the article “‘Political Grains’: Hunger and the Struggles for Food in
Bulawayo, Zimbabwe, c.2000–2010” in The Journal of Asian and African Studies. This piece reflects on the everyday
experiences of ordinary citizens in accessing food during the protracted crisis years in Zimbabwe’s history. The article can be
read here.
Professor of History Melissa Byrnes took part in a roundtable review of Isaac Stanley-Becker’s book Europe without Borders:
A History for the H-Diplo/Robert Jervis International Security Studies Forum. The review can be read here.
JJJJaaaannnnuuuuaaaarrrryyyy 2222000022226666
Professor of History Melissa Byrnes organized and helped lead a workshop titled “Leadership in a Small Liberal Arts College
History Program” at the American Historical Association’s (AHA) annual meeting in Chicago. Dr. Byrnes is co-chair of the
AHA’s working group on small liberal arts colleges.
Professor of History Melissa Byrnes was featured on the New Books Network podcast for her book Making Space:
Neighbors, Officials, and North African Migrants in the Suburbs of Paris and Lyon (University of Nebraska Press, 2024). The
episode can be heard here. Dr. Byrnes’ book was also recently reviewed on H-Diplo. The review can be read here.
DDDDeeeecccceeeemmmmbbbbeeeerrrr 2222000022225555
Assistant Professor of History Bryan Kauma recently published a book chapter titled “‘Agriculture is a scam!’:
Agrotechnologies and the Agrarian Fallacy Among African Grain Farmers in Colonial Zimbabwe, the 1920s to 1970s” in
Environment, Technology, and Development. The chapter explores the experiences of grain farmers and demonstrates the
socio-environmental impacts that fertilizers and hybrid seeds had on African agriculture and food (in)security during the
colonial years in Zimbabwe. This chapter is also available Open Access here.
OOOOccccttttoooobbbbeeeerrrr 2222000022225555
Professor of History Melissa Byrnes was part of a roundtable on “The State of the Field: European Urban History” at the
Urban History Association Conference in Los Angeles. Her opening remarks focused on cities as imperial (and postcolonial)
spaces, renewed emphasis on community agency, and the rich intersection of local and transnational histories.
SSSSeeeepppptttteeeemmmmbbbbeeeerrrr 2222000022225555
Assistant Professor of History Bryan U. Kauma presented the paper “‘Political Grains:’ Bad Politics, Hunger, and the
Weaponization of Grain in Zimbabwe, c.2000-2010” at the 2025 Rocky Mountain Workshop on African History, held at
Portland State University from September 12-13. The paper has also been accepted for publication by the Journal of Asian
and African Studies.
AAAAuuuugggguuuusssstttt 2222000022225555
Professor of History Melissa Byrnes presented a paper titled “French Anti-Salazarism in the 1960s: Allying against Imperial
Violence” at the Global Consortium for French Historical Studies in Paris, organized on the theme of “Resistance.”
AAAApppprrrriiiillll 2222000022225555
Professor of History Melissa Byrnes contributed to a published roundtable review of Jack Snyder’s book Human Rights for
Pragmatists for H-Diplo and the Robert Jervis International Security Studies Forum. It can be read here.
Assistant Professor of History Soojung Han presented the paper “Changes to Diplomatic Relations through Marriage Alliance
Systems in Middle Period China (304-907)” at the T’ang Studies Society Conference, hosted by the T’ang Studies Society
and the Elling Eide Center in Sarasota, FL.
Assistant Professor of History Bryan Kauma was awarded the inaugural American Society for Environmental History (ASEH)
Research Fellowship at the just-ended ASEH annual conference in Pittsburgh. He also presented his forthcoming paper,
“Farming the God’s Way: Rethinking Fertilizers and Hybrid Seeds in African Grain Production in Colonial Zimbabwe, 1950s to
1970s.”
Associate Professor of History Jethro Hernández Berrones presented a brief lecture titled “Mapeando las prácticas de
partería de la ciudad de México: La Escuela Libre de Obstetricia y Enfermería y la visualización de los partos en casa después
de la revolución. [Mapping Mexico City’s midwifery practices: The Free School of Obstetrics and Nursing and the visualization
of at-home births after the revolution].” The presentation was part of the activities of the second workshop of MX.digital, an
interdisciplinary group of scholars from the United States and Mexico, including historians, anthropologists, geographers, and
computer scientists, interested in the creation of digital repositories and maps for the visualization of the history of Mexico,
organized by the Centro de Investigación y Docencia Económicas (CIDE), Aguascalientes, and sponsored by John Hopkins
University. He became a member of the curricular committee tasked to design a general and flexible curriculum to
disseminate knowledge, methodology, and projects on digital and public history for the collection, organization, and
visualization of historical information.
FFFFeeeebbbbrrrruuuuaaaarrrryyyy 2222000022225555
Assistant Professors of Sociology Adriana Ponce and Amanda Hernandez, Assistant Professor of Political
Science Alexander Goodwin, Assistant Professor of History Bryan Kauma, and Assistant Professor of English Sonia Del
Hierro published “Teaching with Color: Thematic Hires and the Politics of Teaching in Texas,” in the journal Sociology of Race
and Ethnicity. This article joins a growing conversation in the humanities and humanistic social sciences on ways faculty of
color shoulder the burden of thinking about our shared futures as racialized, intersectional, and collaborative. You can find the
article here.
JJJJaaaannnnuuuuaaaarrrryyyy 2222000022225555
Professor of History Melissa Byrnes co-led a workshop on “Building a Small Liberal Arts College History Department,” as well
as a mentoring session for early career scholars interested in working at a small liberal arts college, at the annual meeting of
the American Historical Association (AHA). She is about to begin a term as co-chair of the AHA working group on small liberal
arts colleges. She also currently serves on the AHA’s Nancy Lyman Roelker Mentorship Award committee.
Associate Professor of History Jethro Hernández Berrones presented his work, titled “Visualizing at-home births in Mexico
City after the revolution: Midwives from the Free School of Obstetrics and Nursing, 1920s and 30s,” at the seminario
permanente de investigación de Atlas.mx, sponsored by CIDE, CONACYT, INEGI, UCMexus, UC Riverside, and John Hopkins
University. He discussed his previous work with students to develop a digital map to locate midwives who graduated from this
school and the women they aided. The talk also introduced his new project, co-directed with Assistant Professor of
Geographic Information Sciences Stephanie Insalaco, to create an interactive digital map aimed at making the historical
archive of these midwives public.
NNNNoooovvvveeeemmmmbbbbeeeerrrr 2222000022224444
Professor of History Melissa Byrnes convened a salon session, “Engaging the Public through French History,” at the Western
Society for French History’s fiftieth-anniversary annual conference in San Francisco. She also chaired and commented on a
session about “Managing Gender and Families in Mid-Twentieth-Century France.”
Assistant Professor of History Bryan Kauma gave a poster presentation titled, “‘Eating money’: Dollarization and the
monetization of grain in Zimbabwe, 2000-08,” at the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs’ Workshop on
Commodity Price Volatility in New York, on October 31.
Associate Professor of History Jethro Hernández Berrones participated in a roundtable titled “Reproductive Science:
Comparative Perspectives on the Past; Global Inspirations for the Future” at the 2024 annual meeting of the History of
Science Society. His contributions were based on his most recent research project, titled “An In(di)visibilized Labor: The Free
School of Obstetrics and Nursing and the Erasure of Professional Midwifery in Post-Revolutionary Mexico City.” He argues
that this free school offered an alternative program that challenged the state’s model of birth by giving its graduates more
autonomy to perform their services, including complicated births, at home without male doctors’ oversight. Despite the
essential role of midwives both at home and in welfare institutions, the normalization of natural births, the regulations that
restricted midwives’ intervention to natural births, and their ability to exercise obstetric autonomy just at home rendered
midwives’ labor necessary for the reproduction of the Mexican nation, yet invisible.
OOOOccccttttoooobbbbeeeerrrr 2222000022224444
Assistant Professor of History Bryan Kauma presented his forthcoming paper, “‘Critical but stable’: Agricultural Propaganda,
Politics and Hunger in Zimbabwe,” at the Young Scholars Initiative, Exploring the Dark Side of the Moon: The History of
Economics in the Global South workshop on October 17.
SSSSeeeepppptttteeeemmmmbbbbeeeerrrr 2222000022224444
History and biology alumna Katherine Montgomery ’23 presented a paper, titled “A Crafty Woman in a Mangled World: The
Intersection of Art and Facial Reconstruction in Anna Coleman Ladd’s Mask Making,” at the Virtual Graduate Conference of
the Southern Association for the History of Medicine held on September 13. Katherine originally worked with Chair and
Associate Professor of History Joseph E. Hower on this project during her history capstone course. After graduation, she
worked with Associate Professor of History Jethro Hernández Berrones to turn her project into a piece for publication. Her
presentation explored the intersections of gender, disability, surgery, and military history to highlight the innovative work in
the field of prosthetics of Anna Coleman in the late 1910s.
AAAAuuuugggguuuusssstttt 2222000022224444
Assistant Professor of Sociology Amanda Hernandez, Assistant Professor of Sociology Adriana Ponce, Assistant Professor
of Political Science Alexander Goodwin, Assistant Professor of History Bryan Kauma, and Assistant Professor of
English Sonia Del Hierro had their abstract “Teaching With Color: Thematic Hires and the Politics of Teaching in Texas”
accepted as a special feature for the 10 Year Reflection Special Issue on pedagogy and hope in the Journal for the Sociology
of Race & Ethnicity. The article will be both a pedagogical reflection on hope in the classroom and on thematic hires. The
issue will be available in early 2025.
JJJJuuuullllyyyy 2222000022224444
Assistant Professor of History Bryan Kauma attended the 29th Southern African Historical Society (SAHS) at the University
of Johannesburg on June 26-27, where he presented fieldwork notes from Mellon PEH Summer Fellowship-supported
research on commodities, trade, and pre-colonial African society.
Assistant Professor of History Bryan Kauma attended the Institute for Global Law and Policy Global Scholars Academy in
Stellenbosch, South Africa on June 28, where he presented his paper titled, “‘Put it in their food’: Food, Power, and Control in
southern Zimbabwe.”
JJJJuuuunnnneeee 2222000022224444
Associate Professor of History Jethro Hernández Berrones was invited to participate in a workshop of the “Seminar of the
social and cultural history of health and disease in Mexico,” held at the Institute of Historical Research, National Autonomous
University of Mexico (UNAM). Discussants contributed their chapters for an upcoming volume on hidden histories of health
and disease in Mexico in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Professor Hernandez Berrones’ contribution, titled
“Recovering the relics of modern medicine in Mexico: Homeopathy, vitalism, and religion, 1853-1912,” examines the
associations between heterodox religious and medical systems in the construction of a plural therapeutic market place in
modern Mexico.
Professor of History Melissa Byrnes has been appointed as a production editor for H-France Review.
Professor of History Melissa Byrnes reviewed Katharina Fritsch’s book, The Diaspora of the Comoros in France: Ethnicised
Biopolitics and Communitarianism, for H-France. It can be read here.
AAAApppprrrriiiillll 2222000022224444
Associate Professor of History Joseph Hower found time, between beignets, to chair and comment on a panel on
“Environmental Justice in Postwar America” at the Organization of American Historians Conference on American History in
New Orleans.
Assistant Professor of History Soojung Han was invited to give a talk in the “Asia in Depth” series at Georgetown University.
Her talk was titled “The Rise of the Shatuo Turks: Identity Formation in Medieval China.”
MMMMaaaarrrrcccchhhh 2222000022224444
Professor of History Melissa Byrnes presented as part of “New Directions in the Historiography of Post/Colonial France: A
Book Panel,” at the Society for French Historical Studies annual meeting at Hofstra University.
FFFFeeeebbbbrrrruuuuaaaarrrryyyy 2222000022224444
Professor of History Melissa Byrnes gave a guest lecture at the University of Maryland-College Park on “Race and Activism
in France: From the Algerian War to #BLM.” While in the DC area, she also gave invited talks at American University and
Georgetown University about her recent book, Making Space: Neighbors, Officials, and North African Migrants in the Suburbs
of Paris and Lyon
Professor of History Melissa Byrnes gave a public talk on the history behind the book and recent Netflix series, All the Light
We Cannot See, at Lark & Owl Booksellers in Georgetown.
Assistant Professor of History Bryan Kauma presented a paper titled, ‘‘Agriculture is a scam!’: Modified seeds, fertilizers and
the agrarian fallacy among African grain farmers in colonial Zimbabwe, the 1950s to 1979, at the European University Institute,
Knowing the planet: Environment, technology, and development in the 19th and 20th centuries workshop.
Assistant Professor of History Bryan Kauma published an article in the journal Critical African Studies, ‘Our stomachs are still
hungry’: The colonial state, African Nutrition and small grains in Southern Rhodesia (Zimbabwe), c.1950 to 1970s.
Professor of History Melissa Byrnes was part of a roundtable on “Difficult Conversations in the Liberal Arts Classroom” that
followed a workshop by the same name at the American Historical Association’s annual meeting in San Francisco, CA.
Mercedes Chervony ’23 presented her research, “From the Chicago Freedom Movement to Cabrini-Greene: The Limitations
of Legal Activism and the Foresaking of the Projects,” at an undergraduate lightening round, also at the American Historical
Association’s annual meeting in San Francisco, CA.
JJJJaaaannnnuuuuaaaarrrryyyy 2222000022224444
Professor of History Melissa Byrnes published her book Making Space: Neighbors, Officials, and North African Migrants in
the Suburbs of Paris and Lyon as part of the France Overseas: Studies in Empire and Decolonization Series at the University
of Nebraska Press.
DDDDeeeecccceeeemmmmbbbbeeeerrrr 2222000022223333
Associate Dean of the Faculty & Associate Professor of History Jessica Hower published the chapter, “Utopia’s Empire:
Thomas More’s Text and the Early British Atlantic World, c. 1510-1625,” in Thomas More’s Utopia, edited by Phil Withington
and Cathy Shrank (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2023). The piece explores the broad context in which one of the most
famous–and incompletely understood–books of the sixteenth century were written and read, arguing that doing so allows us
to come to a fuller understanding of the nature, significance, and utility of Utopia and of the empire created alongside it.
Assistant Professor of History Bryan Kauma published a co-authored piece in the Routledge Handbook of Environmental
History. The paper titled “Future Directions” was a collaborative work by six scholars across six time zones, reimagining the
future of environmental history. You can find the book here.
Assistant Professor of History Bryan Kauma attended and presented his paper Unholy Alliances! Hunger, Politics and Control
in Southern Africaat the African Studies Association Annual Meeting held in San Francisco from Nov. 30_Dec. 3. In this paper,
Kauma explores the politics and weaponization of food by political and cultural elites in postcolonial southern Africa.
Professor of History Melissa Byrnes published a coedited volume on Fertility, Family, and Social Welfare between France and
Empire: The Colonial Politics of Population. The book is the first in the New Directions in Welfare History series published by
Palgrave Macmillan. It examines issues of race, demography, medicine, and social policy from the 17th century to the 20th
across the breadth of the French Empire (including Algeria, Canada, Cambodia, India, and Senegal). In addition to cowriting
the introduction, she contributed a solo-authored chapter, “Criminal Fertility: Policing North African Families after
Decolonization,” which traces the connections between sexuality, surveillance, population control, and police power in the
Lyon suburb of Villeurbanne.
NNNNoooovvvveeeemmmmbbbbeeeerrrr 2222000022223333
Assistant Professor of History Soojung Han was invited to give a talk in the China Humanities Seminar (CHS) series at
Harvard University. Her talk was titled, “Forging a New Sino-Inner Asian Order: The Brotherly Relations Between the Shatuo
Turks and Kitans (907–979).”

--- Page 2 of 3 ---

Associate Dean of the Faculty & Associate Professor of History Jessica Hower’s book, Mary I in Writing: Letters, Literature,
and Representation (Palgrave Macmillan, 2022), co-edited with Valerie Schutte, won the best collaborative project award
from the Society for the Study of Early Modern Women. Hower co-wrote the introduction and single-authored a chapter in the
volume, the first of three books on the queen that she has written in the past two years.
OOOOccccttttoooobbbbeeeerrrr 2222000022223333
Associate Professor of History Jessica Hower published the book Mid-Tudor Queenship and Memory: The Making and Re-
making of Lady Jane Grey and Mary I. It is part of Palgrave Macmillan’s internationally renowned “Queenship and Power”
series and features 11 original, peer-reviewed scholarly articles. Hower coedited the book with Valerie Schutte and also
single-authored both the introduction as well as the chapter, “’As the Kinges of this Realme her Most Noble Progenitours’:
Historical (Self-)Fashioning at the Accession Moment.” The volume is available on the publisher’s website here and on
Amazon.
Associate Professor of History Jethro Hernández Berrones was invited to present his work in the seminar “Itinerante” of
History and Historiography of Sciences and Technologies jointly hosted by UNAM, CINVESTAV, and COLMEX. In his talk titled
“Homeopathy in the light of biology: The Limits of Medical Science after the Mexican Revolution,” he discussed how MDs
used the emerging paradigm of experimental physiology to establish the limits between what counted as legitimate medicine
and not in the 1920s, 30s and 40s. Given their professional differences, homeopaths and its detractors adopted and adapted
the paradigm to criticize each other´s curriculum and practices. While the different interpretations created a boundary
between both types of practitioners, patients and authorities regarded both approaches as scientific and, therefore,
susceptible to consumption and support. You can see the entire session (in Spanish) on YouTube or Facebook.
JJJJuuuullllyyyy 2222000022223333
Professor of History Melissa Byrnes published a discussion of police violence, anti-racist activism, and the current French
protests on the Lawyers, Guns & Money blog.
JJJJuuuunnnneeee 2222000022223333
Assistant Professor of History Joseph Hower published a review of Jane Berger’s A New Working Class: The Legacies of
Public-Sector Employment in the Civil Rights Movement in the journal Labor: Studies in Working-Class History.
Associate Professor of History Jessica Hower presented a paper entitled, “‘The recovery of her ancestral and hereditary
right’: History, Memory, and Female Succession in the Mid-Tudor Era,” at the Female Succession in Late Medieval and Early
Modern Monarch—Contestation, Conflict, and Compromise Conference at Rey Juan Carlos University in Spain, 24-26 May
2023.
MMMMaaaayyyy 2222000022223333
Assistant Professor of History Joseph Hower presented a paper titled “Out of Their Beds and into the Streets: Care, Violence,
and AFSCME’s Response to Deinstitutionalization in the Long 1970s” before the 2023 meeting of the Labor and Working-
Class History Association at Rutgers University.
Associate Professor of History Jessica Hower gave the keynote lecture for the Queen Elizabeth I Society at their annual
meeting in conjunction with the international South Central Renaissance Studies Conference at the University of California,
Berkeley, 27-29 April 2023. Hower’s talk was entitled “A Tale of Two Pales: Dublin and Calais in the Tudor Imperial World” and
served as a transition of sorts from my first monograph into a new stream of research on the once-English, now-French city
and its history, myth, and heritage from the sixteenth century to the present.
Associate Professor of History Jessica S. Hower organized the Britain and the World 2023 Conference at Duquesne
University, held June 20–22. The conference welcomed 125 interdisciplinary scholars from across the globe for three full days
of papers, plenaries, and roundtables on Britain’s relationship with the wider world from the 16th century to the present. In
addition to evaluating abstracts, coordinating the program, and helping lead things on the ground, Hower chaired a panel on
“Rivalry and Restoration in the Early Modern British Atlantic” and led Dr. Carole Levin, a world-renowned scholar of Elizabeth I,
“in conversation” for a lunchtime plenary session about Levin’s distinguished career and contributions to women’s, gender,
and royal studies.
AAAApppprrrriiiillll 2222000022223333
Assistant Professor of History Joseph Hower presented a paper titled “’Out of Their Beds and into the Streets’: Public Sector
Labor and the Politics of Mental Healthcare in the Long 1970s” on March 30 to the 2023 OAH Conference on American
History in Los Angeles, California.
MMMMaaaarrrrcccchhhh 2222000022223333
Assistant Professor of History Soojung Han served as chair and discussant in the panel, “Revisiting the Jin from Digital,
Political, Geocultural, and Long-Term Perspectives,” at the Association for Asian Studies (AAS) 2023 annual meeting in
Boston. The panel was sponsored by the Society for Song, Yuan, and Conquest Dynasties Studies.
Associate Professor of History Melissa Byrnes presented her work, “Activist Echoes: Connecting French Anti-Salazarism to
Opposition to the Algerian War,” at a panel on ‘Leftist Expertise” during the joint Society for French Historical Studies and
Western Society for French History conference in Detroit over Spring Break. She also moderated a discussion with three
authors on their newly published books about youth activism, anti-imperialism, and radical politics in the Francophone world.
Samantha Alvarado ’22 (Anthropology) presented a paper titled “Challenging Norms: Gender, Obstetrics, and the
Gynecological Massage in Mexico in the 1920s,” coauthored with Associate Professor of History Jethro Hernández
Berrones at the Southern Association for the History of Science and Medicine 2023 Annual Conference in Atlanta, GA. This
project was the culmination of a faculty-student research collaboration with Hernández Berrones, who mentored her through
the design of the project, archival work in the summer of 2022 in Mexico City, and the production of the conference paper.
Alvarado received multiple compliments for the breadth and depth of her project and even an invitation by the editor of the
top-notch blog on the history of medicine, Nursing Clio, to submit her work for online publication.
Assistant Professor of History Soojung Han presented the paper, “An Integrated Empire: The “Great Liao” in the Tenth
Century,” at the 233rd Meeting of the American Oriental Society in Los Angeles.
Associate Professor of History Jessica S. Hower recorded an episode for the “Tudors Dynasty” Podcast. In the episode,
Hower’s co-author, Valerie Schutte, and Hower discussed their two-book edited collection, Mary I in Writing and Writing Mary
I, which was published by Palgrave Macmillan in mid-2022, and the complicated life and afterlife of England’s first crowned
queen regnant. The pair were the final, culminating episode in a special series on Mary I. “Tudors Dynasty” has been running
since 2017 and has over 130,000 downloads per month. The episode is available here.
FFFFeeeebbbbuuuurrrraaaarrrryyyy 2222000022223333
Associate Professor of History Melissa Byrnes published a review, “The Last Dreams of Empire,” as part of a Tocqueville21
forum discussing Megan Brown’s recent book, The Seventh Member State: Algeria, France, and the European Community.
JJJJaaaannnnuuuuaaaarrrryyyy 2222000022223333
Assistant Professor of History Soojung Han presented the paper, “The Newly Integrated Empire: Liao Taizong’s Rule over the
Middle Kingdom,” at the Kitan Network Annual Symposium 2023, hosted by Waseda University and The Hebrew University of
Jerusalem.
Assistant Professor of History Joseph Hower presented a paper titled “The Municipal Doomsday Machinist? Ralph de
Toledano and the Popularization of Public Sector Union Critiques in Postwar America” to the DC Labor History Seminar Series
on January 13.
Associate Professor of History Jethro Hernández Berrones was invited as a lecturer and discussant to the inquiry immersion
elective course on Decolonization within the Health Sciences at the University of California, San Francisco. He virtually gave
the talk: “Colonial Legacies in the Mexican Pharmaceutical Industry: The Instituto Médico Nacional (1888-1905) and the
Exploration of Medicinal Plants” to medical students and guided a discussion about how to dismantle those legacies.
DDDDeeeecccceeeemmmmbbbbeeeerrrr 2222000022222222
Associate Professor of History Jethro Hernández Berrones was invited to participate in the seminar Itinerante of History and
Historiography of Sciences and Technologies jointly hosted by UNAM, CINVESTAV, and COLMEX. He responded to and
commented on the presentation “El genérico espectacular: los medicamentos y la simipolítica en México,” The Spectacular
Generic: Pharmaceuticals and theSimipolitical in Mexico by Cori Hayden. The seminar was broadcasted
on YouTube and Facebook.
NNNNoooovvvveeeemmmmbbbbeeeerrrr 2222000022222222
Associate professor of History Melissa Byrnes presented a paper entitled “Securing Thresholds: Housing, Family Size, and
Alleged Delinquency” at the Western Society for French History Annual Conference in Victoria, British Columbia, on
November 4.
Associate Professor of History Jessica S. Hower recorded an episode for the “Not Just the Tudors” Podcast, hosted by
Professor Suzannah Lipscomb. In the episode, Hower’s co-author, Valerie Schutte, and Hower discussed their two-book
edited collection, Mary I in Writingand Writing Mary I, which was published by Palgrave Macmillan earlier this year, and the
fraught history and memory of England’s first crowned queen regnant more generally. “Not Just the Tudors” has been running
since April 2021 and has had over 6 million downloads. The episode is available here.
OOOOccccttttoooobbbbeeeerrrr 2222000022222222
Associate Professor of History Jessica Hower presented a paper titled, “‘Sole Hope of Caesar’s Side’: Humanism and
History in the Reign of Mary I and Philip II,” at the Northeast Conference on British Studies annual gathering, which took place
in a hybrid format at Bates College and online October 21-23.
Associate Professor of History Jethro Hernández Berrones was invited as the inaugural lecturer of the First-Year Experience
lecture series at St. Mary’s University in San Antonio on October 12. Berrones’s talk drew from his own research and career
trajectory to reflect on the role of the liberal arts in education, the value of interdisciplinary study, and a commitment to
lifelong learning.
SSSSeeeepppptttteeeemmmmbbbbeeeerrrr 2222000022222222
Associate Professor of History Jethro Hernández Berrones published virtually three translations of primary sources from
and on the Free School of Obstetrics and Nursing, a school that thrived in Mexico City in the 1920s and 1930s. Together with
other translations on reproduction, abortion, and obstetrics from Mexico and Brazil, the translations are part of the new
“Advanced Topic: Reproductive Histories” section of the History of Science in Latin America and the Caribbean (HOSLAC)
archive hosted by the University of New Hampshire. The contributors’ goal is to create a repository of primary sources
accessible in their original format, transcribed in their original language, and translated into English to teach reproductive
histories to undergraduate and graduate students. The new section is available on the HOSLAC website along with Hernández
Berrones’s three translations: “Handbook from Nursing and Obstetrics School (1920),” “Three Clinical Histories (1929–1931),”
and “Report on Nursing and Obstetrics School (1936).”
Assistant Professor of History Joseph Hower moderated a conversation with Peniel E. Joseph of the University of Texas at
Austin at Lark & Owl Booksellers in Georgetown on his new book The Third Reconstruction: America’s Struggle Racial Justice
in the Twenty-First Century.
AAAAuuuugggguuuusssstttt 2222000022222222
Associate Professor of History Jethro Hernández Berrones published the chapter “Healers and Doctors: A History of the
Healing Occupations in Mexico” in the book Healthcare in Latin America: History, Society, Culture, edited by David S. Dalton
and Douglas J. Weatherford (University of Florida Press, 2022). From the perspective of medical pluralism, this chapter takes
an innovative historiographical approach to trace the healing professions in the history of Mexico. The pluralistic nature of
Mexican medicine has been a reality since colonial times, yet medical professionals disqualified healers with non- or limited
academic background as unscientific, unreliable, and even criminals. If historians of medicine in Mexico writing in the first half
of the 20th century admired the professionalization of medicine and made it the center of their narratives, late 20th-century
historians questioned the utility of a process that privileged physicians and limited the scope of narratives to one form of
health care. Structured with the periods and categories of the history of biomedicine to help readers compare with other
national contexts, the chapter shows how the complex relationships among a wide array of health providers, government
administrations, and historical frameworks shaped new and varied forms of healthcare provision that adapted to the social,
cultural, and political landscape.
JJJJuuuullllyyyy 2222000022222222
Associate Professor of History Jessica Hower presented a paper titled “‘An Empire of Itself’: Constructing and Contesting
Imperial Kingship in the Early Modern World” at the 2022 Kings & Queens Conference, held June 29–July 2 via hybrid format
at Nantes University in France. The conference, which was sponsored by the Royal Studies Network at the University of
Winchester in England and the Center for Research on International and Atlantic History at Nantes University, focused on the
theme “Monarchy and Empire.”
Associate Professor of History Jessica Hower organized the Britain and the World 2022 Conference at the University of
Plymouth in England, held June 14–17. The conference welcomed nearly 150 interdisciplinary scholars from across the globe
for three full days of papers, plenaries, and roundtables on Britain’s relationship with the wider world from the 16th century to
the present. In addition to evaluating abstracts, coordinating the program, and helping lead things on the ground, Hower
presented a paper, “Patrons of Empire: Mary I, Philip II, and the Broadening British World, 1553–1558,” based on her latest
edited book project; took part in a delayed launch for her 2020 monograph, Tudor Empire; and chaired two sessions, a
roundtable on the academic job market on both sides of the Atlantic and a plenary featuring an expert in the study of piracy
and lead historian behind the recently announced discovery of the Gloucester, which was shipwrecked in 1682 off the coast
of Norfolk.
MMMMaaaayyyy 2222000022222222
Associate Professor of History Jess Hower published Writing Mary I: History, Historiography, and Fiction, the second book in
a two-volume edited collection. The companion to Mary I in Writing: Letters, Literature, and Representation, which was
published earlier this spring, the book is part of Palgrave Macmillan’s internationally renowned “Queenship and Power” series
and features 10 original, peer-reviewed scholarly articles. Hower wrote the introduction with her coeditor, Valerie Schutte. The
archival research, writing, and (especially) editing processes were supported by a Jones Competitive Course Release
Sabbatical across the 2020–2021 academic year. The book may be ordered online.
History major Saúl Zúñiga ’22 presented a poster titled “To Live and Birth On: Mexican Midwives’ Prosperity into Modernity”
at the 95th Annual Meeting of the American Association for the History of Medicine, held April 21–24 in Saratoga Springs,
New York. The poster is the culmination of a faculty-student research project carried out in the summer of 2021 with
Associate Professor of History Jethro Hernández Berrones and a King Creativity Fund award Zúñiga used to further his
archival research in Mexico City in the winter of the same year.
Associate Professor of History Jethro Hernández Berrones published the chapter “An Undesirable Past: Free Medical
Schools and the First Doctors of the Mexican Revolution, 1910–1945” in the book Transforming Medical Education: Historical
Case Studies of Teaching, Learning, and Belonging in Medicine, edited by Delia Gavrus and Susan Lamb. The chapter
examines the tensions between proprietary medical schools and post-revolutionary governments. It argues that free schools
offered a space between popular and state medicine for the training of working-class Mexicans who reached communities
with little access to medicine decades before government-sponsored medical schools and public health institutions
implemented programs to do so. Sanitation as a cultural policy to modernize the nation led government institutions to treat
free schools and their graduates as germs subject to eradication. Although unsuccessful, these institutions aimed to erase
the schools’ history and ban their graduates from practice. The chapter demonstrates the central role of popular actors in the
regulation of medical training and practice in Mexico after the revolution.
Associate Professor of History Jessica Hower published Mary I in Writing: Letters, Literature, and Representation, the first
book in a two-volume edited collection. The book is part of Palgrave Macmillan’s internationally renowned “Queenship and
Power” series and features 12 original, peer-reviewed scholarly articles. Hower wrote the introduction with her coeditor,
Valerie Schutte, and also wrote a stand-alone chapter, “‘Horrible and Bloudye’ or ‘Most Serene and Potent’: Mary I and
Empire.” The archival research, writing, and (especially) editing processes were supported by a Jones Competitive Course
Release Sabbatical across the 2020–2021 academic year. The first volume is available here; volume two should be out later
this summer.
MMMMaaaarrrrcccchhhh 2222000022222222
Associate Professor of History Jess Hower presented the paper “‘Verye True and Undoubted Heire and Inheritrix’: Mary I,
Lady Jane Grey, and History” at the 2022 South Central Renaissance Conference (SCRC), which was held virtually March 3–5.
The conference was sponsored by the University of Alabama and included the Queen Elizabeth I Society. The paper stemmed
from a chapter Hower wrote for an edited collection of 12 essays on mid-Tudor queenship that she is coediting for Palgrave
Macmillan’s “Queenship and Power” series. She has been invited to present the keynote address at the 2023 SCRC at the
University of California, Berkeley.
Associate Professor of History Jethro Hernández Berrones discussed his chapter “Mystic of Medicine, Modern Curandero,
and ‘Improvised Doctor’: Francisco I. Madero and the Practice of Homeopathy in Rural Mexico at the Turn of the Twentieth
Century” from The Gray Zones of Medicine: Healers and History in Latin America,edited by Diego Armus and Pablo F. Gomez,
during the undergraduate seminar Cultures and Media of Environmental Health taught by Rebecca Earles at Rice University.
Associate Professor of History Jethro Hernández Berrones published the article “Plural Medicine, Medical Expertise, and
Public Health in Nineteenth- and Twentieth-Century Mexico” [⼗九世纪和⼆⼗世纪墨⻄哥的多元医学、医学专业知识和公共卫⽣]
in the collective volume “Disease and Health in Latin American History” edited by Diego Armus and published by the
University of Shanghai’s Journal of the Social History of Medicine and Health. The collection brought together both U.S. and
Latin American historians who offered an overview of thematic interests and methodological approaches in the Caribbean,
Central America, Mexico, and the southern cone of South America. Originally written in English and translated into Mandarin,
Hernández Berrones’s article examines the persistent tension between traditional and biomedical healing approaches in
modern Mexico and offers the kaleidoscopic landscape of healing traditions in Mexico, including indigenous medicine,
homeopathy, and spiritual healing.
JJJJaaaannnnuuuuaaaarrrryyyy 2222000022222222
Associate Professor of History Jethro Hernández Berrones organized a panel titled “Reproducing the Nation: Midwives,
Mothers, and Citizenship across the Americas” for the American Historical Association 135th Annual Meeting, held January 6–
9 in New Orleans, Louisiana. In addition to Hernández Berrones, the panel included scholars studying the medicalization of
motherhood in 20th century Colombia and the practice and regulation of midwifery in New Mexico at the turn of the 20th
century. Hernández Berrones presented a paper titled “Birthing the Children of the Revolution: The Practice of Midwifery in
Mexico City, 1920–1940” where, using clinical histories written by midwives, he shows the role that gender, class, new
medical knowledge, space, and patient-doctor-midwife relationships played in the birthing room during the construction of a
national public health system in Mexico.
OOOOccccttttoooobbbbeeeerrrr 2222000022221111was well represented at the 11th Race, Ethnicity, and Place Conference, held October 20–23 in
Baltimore, Maryland. The SU Racial History Project presented a panel featuring research from both 2020 and 2021 SCOPE
projects. The panel included:
Professor of Anthropology Melissa Johnson: “The Southwestern Racial History Project: An Overview”
Kristine Velez ’22 (Anthropology): “McKenzie College: A Plantation on the Edge of Indigenous Territory”
Saul Zuniga ’22 (History): “Soule University, Slavery, and the Confederacy”
Juan Mojica ’22 (Anthropology): “Hispanics, Methodism, and the Reproduction of Whiteness”
Rini Mannankara ’22 (Political Science and Anthropology): “The Presence and Representation of Blackness in the
1960s and 1970s at”
In addition, SU alumna Esther S. Ramos-Garcia ’19 (Latin American and Border Studies), who is currently a graduate student
at the University of Texas in the Teresa Lozano Long Institute of Latin American Studies program, presented “Accompanando
Ninos Migrantes ‘No Accompanados’: A Feminist Geopolitical Perspective on Central American Unaccompanied Minors in U.S.
Long-Term Foster Care (LTFC)” as part of a panel titled “Asylum in Crisis.”
Associate Professor of History Jessica S. Hower co-organized two panels for the Northeast Conference on British Studies
Annual Conference, which took place virtually October 22–23. For the first panel, “Queen Mary I and Lady Jane Grey:
Contemporary Perspectives and Representations,” she presented a paper titled, “‘Most Rightful Enheritoure of the Crowne
Imperial of England’: Mary I, Lady Jane Grey, and the Power of Historical Precedent.” For the second, “Queen Mary I and Lady
Jane Grey: Posthumous Perspectives and Representations,” she served as chair. Both panels came out of a new collection of
10 original essays Hower is coediting with Valerie Schutte on mid-Tudor queenship, currently under contract with Palgrave
Macmillan and slated for publication in late 2022 or early 2023.
Associate Professor of History Jessica S. Hower was elected a fellow of the Royal Historical Society in recognition of her
contribution to historical scholarship. Fellowships are awarded to those who have made an original contribution to the
discipline of history, normally through the authorship of a book.
SSSSeeeepppptttteeeemmmmbbbbeeeerrrr 2222000022221111
Associate Professor of History Melissa Byrnes published an article titled “Anti-Salazarism and Transnational Solidarity:

--- Page 3 of 3 ---

Associate Professor of History Melissa Byrnes published an article titled “Anti-Salazarism and Transnational Solidarity:
Franco-Portuguese Student Activism in the 1960s” in French History and Civilization (vol. 10). Byrnes considers the role of
migrants in the 1968 protests, early networks of transnational activism, connections between campus life and broader social
inequities, and students’ shared strategies for opposing authoritarianism, fascism, and imperialism.
Associate Professor of History Jethro Hernández Berrones published the chapter “Mystic of Medicine, Modern Curandero,
and ‘Médico Improvisado’: Francisco I. Madero and the Practice of Homeopathy in Rural Mexico at the Turn of the 20th
Century” in the volume The Gray Zones of Medicine: Healers and History in Latin America, edited by Diego Armus and Pablo
F. Gómez. Through biographies of marginalized historical actors, the volume demonstrates the power of challenging
traditional analytical dichotomies in the history of health and disease to illuminate the nuances and intricacies of Latin
America’s medical past. In his chapter, Hernández Berrones describes the health and healing cultures in which one of the
future leaders of the Mexican Revolution operated. Madero adopted spiritism and homeopathy, two innovative European
practices, to find meaning in the world that surrounded him and to act upon it, inadvertently aligning with local popular health
beliefs and practices and challenging the modern medical institutions that the regime he would overturn a decade later
shaped.
MMMMaaaayyyy 2222000022221111
Double major in Spanish and environmental studies Jasmine Herrera ’21 and history major Saul Zuñiga ’22 presented
“Mapping the Past” at the ninth Phi Alpha Theta History Conference, held at Texas State University (TSU) on April 24, 2021.
Their poster was awarded first place for undergraduate virtual presentations. The poster was selected from 19 submissions
by students from TSU, Baylor, and UT Dallas, and the award included an honorarium and a certificate.
Associate Professor of History Jessica S. Hower presented the paper “Drawing an Empire: Elizabeth I, The Armada Portrait,
and the Creation of a British Atlantic World” at the Dressing a Picture: Reimagining the Court Portrait 1500–1800 conference,
held virtually May 6–7, 2021. The conference was organized, sponsored, and run by the University of Cambridge, where it was
originally scheduled to take place.
Please join us in congratulating the recipients of the following awards:
2021 Teaching Awards
Tenured: Associate Professor of Education Alicia Moore
Tenure-track: Assistant Professor of Business Gabriela Flores
Visiting, part-time, and staff with faculty rank: Director of General Chemistry Labs Willis Weigand
2021 Jesse E. Purdy Excellence in Scholarly and Creative Works Award
Tenured: Associate Professor of Communication Studies Bob Bednar
Tenure-track: Assistant Professor of History Joseph Hower
2021 Excellence in Advising Award
Professor of Spanish Laura Senio Blair
AAAApppprrrriiiillll 2222000022221111
Double major in Spanish and environmental studies Jasmine Herrera ’21 and history major Saul Zuñiga ’22 presented a
paper titled “Mapping the Past: A Look into the Distribution of Midwives from Escuela Libre de Obstetricia y Enfermeria in
Mexico City during the 1920s and 30s” at the 9th Phi Alpha Theta History Conference organized by Texas State University
and held virtually on April 24, 2021. Herrera and Zuñiga undertook their research, wrote the paper, and prepared the
presentation under the mentorship of Associate Professor of History Jethro Hernández Berrones during the 2020–2021
academic year. You can see their presentation here.
Assistant Professor of History Joseph Hower presented a paper titled “Solidarity for Some, Solidarity for Later? Prison
Guards, Police, and the (Labor) Politics of Mass Incarceration in the United States, 1960s–1990s” at “While There Is a Soul in
Prison, I Am Not Free”: The History of Solidarity in Social and Economic Justice, a special conference jointly convened by the
Eugene V. Debs Foundation, the Cunningham Memorial Library, Indiana State University (ISU), and ISU’s Department of
History on April 10, 2021.
MMMMaaaarrrrcccchhhh 2222000022221111
Associate Professor of History Jessica S. Hower presented the paper “‘To Her Whose Virtues and Kingdoms He Inherits’:
The Politics and Practice of Tudor Imperial Queenship” at the annual South Central Renaissance Conference, which was held
virtually March 25–27, 2021. The conference was sponsored by Penn State University and included the Queen Elizabeth I
Society (QEIS). The paper, which stemmed from a chapter Hower wrote for a two-volume edited collection of 20 essays on
Mary I that she is coediting in Palgrave Macmillan’s Queenship and Power series, won the QEIS’s Brandie Siegfried Memorial
Prize for best paper by a senior scholar. The prize honors the paper “whose rigor, clarity, and elegant delivery embodied the
scholarly principles Brandie demanded of herself and others.”
FFFFeeeebbbbuuuurrrraaaarrrryyyy 2222000022221111
Associate Professor of History Jethro Hernández Berrones presented his research project “Birthing the Children of the
Revolution: Midwifery in 20th-Century Mexico” to the Rice University Medical Humanities working group on February 12,
2021. He showcased the contributions of his former and current research assistants. His current research assistants, Eugenia
Agobe ’23, Jasmine Herrera ’21, and Saul Zuñiga ’22, attended the event and learned about similar initiatives alongside
graduate students at Rice.
JJJJaaaannnnuuuuaaaarrrryyyy 2222000022221111
Associate Professor of History Jessica S. Hower published a book with Palgrave Macmillan’s scholarly monographs division
in December 2020. The book, titled Tudor Empire: The Making of Britain and the British Atlantic World, 1485–1603, is part of
the field-leading Britain and the Worldseries. Find the book here.
Associate Professor of History Melissa K. Byrnes published a piece on the lessons learned from the Paris riot of February 6,
1934, in relation to what could possibly happen and what should come after the attack on the U.S. Capitol on January 6, 2021.
Find the piece here.
DDDDeeeecccceeeemmmmbbbbeeeerrrr 2222000022220000
Assistant Professor of History Joseph Hower published the article “‘You’ve Come a Long Way—Maybe’: Working Women,
Comparable Worth, and the Transformation of the American Labor Movement, 1964–1989” in the December 2020 issue of
the Journal of American History, the leading scholarly publication in the field of U.S. history. Read the article here.
JJJJuuuullllyyyy 2222000022220000
Associate Professor of History Melissa Byrnes took part in the virtual joint 66th Society for French Historical Studies
Conference and 22nd George Rudé Seminar in French History and Civilisation, which sadly did not take place as planned in
Auckland, New Zealand. She gave a paper on student protests and state violence, “Anti-Salazarism and Transnational
Solidarity: Franco-Portuguese Student Activism in the 1960s.” She also moderated a roundtable on Teaching French History
in a Global Frame.
Meili Criezis ’17 published a peer-reviewed article as part of the CTC Sentinel special June issue on coronavirus and
counterterrorism: “Pandemic Narratives: Pro-Islamic State Media and the Coronavirus.” Criezis also published “Islamic State
Telegram Stickers: Purposes, Themes, and Narratives” for the Global Network on Extremism and Technology at King’s College
London.
MMMMaaaayyyy 2222000022220000
Assistant Professor of History Jethro Hernández Berrones presented virtually the paper titled ”Birthing the Children of the
Revolution: Professional Midwifery in Mexico City during the 1920s and ’30s” at the Latin American Studies Association on
May 14, 2020. In this paper, Hernández Berrones argues that the Escuela Libre de Obstetricia y Enfermeria was a gendered
space where different medical knowledges, obstetrical practices, and political positions coincided, offering midwifery
students a poorly defined and consequently open space for challenging the growing presence of male doctors in the intimacy
and domesticity of women´s reproductive lives.
Meili Criezis ’17 published the peer-reviewed article “Online Deceptions: Renegotiating Gender Boundaries on ISIS Telegram”
in the University of Leiden’s online journal Perspectives on Terrorism in February. She has since taken a new position as a
program associate with the Polarization and Extremism Research Lab at American University.
MMMMaaaarrrrcccchhhh 2222000022220000
Assistant Professor of History Jethro Hernández Berrones presented a paper titled “Midwife Tomasa C. De Jumper: The
Appropriation of and Contestation to Obstetrical Knowledge after the Mexican Revolution” in the panel “Health and Revolution
in Twentieth-Century Latin America” at the 67th Annual Meeting of the Southeastern Council of Latin American Studies
celebrated in Austin, TX, in March 4–8, 2020. In his paper, Hernández Berrones discussed how clinical histories taken by
midwives in Mexico City in the 1930s demonstrate the key role midwives trained in proprietary medical schools had in helping
women give birth to their children both in public spaces and in domestic settings. These highly skilled women challenged
assumptions by male physicians and government authorities about their training institutions and practical skills. They were
the ones in charge of giving birth to the children of the revolution.
FFFFeeeebbbbuuuurrrraaaarrrryyyy 2222000022220000
Danyale Kellogg ’19, a graduate from the history department at SU and now a Master of International Affairs candidate at the
Bush School of Government and Public Service of Texas A&M University, presented a paper at the 11th Annual Texas A&M
History Conference, “The Challenge of Change,” in February. The paper, titled “Forgotten Intelligence from the Forgotten War:
Victory Disease, American Intelligence Failures, and the US Government´s False Perception of the Chinese During the Korean
War,” was based on her final capstone paper where she examined US Intelligence failures to anticipate the Chinese
intervention in the Korean War in the early 1950s.
JJJJaaaannnnuuuuaaaarrrryyyy 2222000022220000
Assistant Professor of History Jethro Hernández Berrones reflected on the relevance of homeopathy for understanding
access to medicine in Mexico and Latin America in the past and in the present in an interview for the blog of the Brazilian
journal História Ciências Saúde—Manguinhos. You can read the interview here.
Assistant Professor of History Jethro Hernández Berrones’s entry “A Recipe for the Body: Chiropractic Medicine in Mexico
(Part I)” was published by The Recipes Project, a blog dedicated to food, magic, art, science, medicine, and everything
related to recipes, from magical charms to veterinary remedies. The entry offers a brief analysis of a few documentary
ingredients Hernández Berrones found prospecting the archival mines of unorthodox healers in postrevolutionary Mexico in
his efforts to concoct a nuanced narrative of 20th-century medicine in that country. Mexican chiropractors navigated a still-
undefined space where national traditions blended with domestic and foreign modernities. Their bodily recipes kept the
bodies of thousands of Mexicans fit to modernize a nation, and their activism pushed for the health of the medical body
politic.
SSSSEEEEEEEE YYYYOOOOUUUURRRRSSSSEEEELLLLFFFF AAAATTTT SSSSUUUU FFFFOOOOLLLLLLLLOOOOWWWW UUUUSSSS
RRRREEEEQQQQUUUUEEEESSSSTTTT IIIINNNNFFFFOOOO
GGGGEEEEOOOORRRRGGGGEEEETTTTOOOOWWWWNNNN,,,, TTTTEEEEXXXXAAAASSSS |||| 555511112222....888866663333....6666555511111111
UUUUNNNNIIIIVVVVEEEERRRRSSSSIIIITTTTYYYY PPPPRRRROOOOFFFFIIIILLLLEEEE HHHHEEEELLLLPPPPFFFFUUUULLLL LLLLIIIINNNNKKKKSSSS CCCCOOOONNNNTTTTAAAACCCCTTTT SSSSUUUU
MMMMiiiissssssssiiiioooonnnn,,,, PPPPuuuurrrrppppoooosssseeee,,,, aaaannnndddd PPPPrrrriiiivvvvaaaaccccyyyy PPPPoooolllliiiiccccyyyy CCCCoooonnnnttttaaaacccctttt UUUUssss
VVVVaaaalllluuuueeeessss
WWWWoooorrrrkkkk aaaatttt SSSSUUUU DDDDiiiirrrreeeeccccttttoooorrrryyyy
EEEEddddiiiittttoooorrrr LLLLooooggggiiiinnnn
CCCCHHHHAAAATTTT PPPPRRRROOOOVVVVIIIIDDDDEEEERRRR
LLLLiiiivvvveeeeCCCChhhhaaaatttt