--- Page 1 of 7 ---

4/2/26, 2:24 PM Resources & FacilitiesMenu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
HISTORY
Resources & Facilities
Below you will find a list of history related links to various resources.
Although this list is in no way comprehensive, you can use it as a jumping off
point in your explorations of history.
Professional Organizations and Societies
American Historical Association
Organization of American Historians
General References
The American Memory from the Library of Congress - A superb collection of on-line
exhibits and archives including African American Perspectives, The Photography of the Civil
War, Records of the Continental Congress, and Votes for Women.
The Avalon Project at the Yale Law School - The best collection of pre-20th century legal
and political documents on the web.
Center for History and New Media – This George Mason University site hosts fascinating
historical exhibits and interactive demonstrations of how to interpret historical sources.
James Ford Bell Library - This University of Minnesota library has a collection of on-line
historical maps.
Hanover Electronic Texts and Images - Superb collection of on-line primary documents
and links to other web related resources.
https://www.southwestern.edu/history/resources-facilities/ 1/7

--- Page 2 of 7 ---

4/2/26, 2:24 PM Resources & FacilitiesLibrary of Congress - Information on the Library of Congress and a searchable index of
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
its collections.
United States National Archives - Information on the National Archives including on-line
searches, the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection, and on-line exhibits on
topics spanning regions and centuries.
World History Archives – Collection of on-line primary documents in world history.
Careers for History Majors
American Historical Association - What can you do with an undergraduate degree in
history? Many, many things! The AHA have a variety of resources, links, and articles dedicated
to jobs and professional development, check it out! To go straight to job postings on their web
site, click here !
African History
Exploring Africa - A University of South Carolina site that includes maps and other visual
images from the 15th, 16th, and 17th centuries.
Internet African History Sourcebook - A marvelous resource with links to numerous other
academic sites including both primary documents and scholarly debates.
African Studies Online Resources (U. Penn)
Africa Web Links: an Annotated Resource List ©
Maps of Africa, The Perry-Castañeda Library Map Collection, The University of Texas at
Austin
Africa: Music, Videos and Films
Africa South of the Sahara: Selected Internet Resources – Comprehensive site of links to
information about sub-Saharan history, including a country-by-country index and a list of
maps.
Asian History
https://www.southwestern.edu/history/resources-facilities/ 2/7

--- Page 3 of 7 ---

4/2/26, 2:24 PM Resources & FacilitiesAssociation for Asian Studies - Comprehensive collection of links and other resources
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Internet East Asian History Sourcebook
Asia and the Pacific - Australian National University’s social sciences and Asian studies
page
Atomic Bomb Museum - A site dedicated to providing easily accessible sources and
information on the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. With photos, testimonies,
links, and more!
Atomic Bomb Decision - Excellent collection of declassified documents dealing with
America’s decision to use nuclear weapons.
European History
EuroDocs - Transcriptions and reproductions of Western European primary documents.
Masters of Renaissance Literature
- Links to primary documents by key figures in the
European Renaissance.
Rome Reborn: The Vatican Library and Renaissance Culture – An on-line exhibit at the
Library of Congress.
Western European Studies Wiki - Comprehensive sets of links to sources and libraries on
Western European history, sorted by country.
Bibliothèque Nationale de France – The national library of France; includes online
exhibits on French history.
Creating French Culture – On-line exhibit at the Library of Congress on French history
from the 8th century to the present.
Deutsches Historisches Museum Berlin – Germany’s national historical museum; includes
on-line exhibits and a searchable database of historical images.
German History in Documents and Images – German Historical Institute’s collection of
on-line primary sources from 1500 to the present.
British Library – The national library of Great Britain; also includes online exhibits.
16th Century Renaissance English Literature - Excellent source for basic information on
various authors as well as links to on-line versions of many of their works.
https://www.southwestern.edu/history/resources-facilities/ 3/7

--- Page 4 of 7 ---

4/2/26, 2:24 PM Resources & FacilitiesArchivos Estatales de España – National archives of Spain, links to their
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
websites/databases and who to contact. They have online exhibits and newspaper archives.
Memory of the Netherlands – Collection of on-line exhibits and sources on Dutch history.
18th Century Studies - Collection of essays and primary documents pertaining to the
18th century.
Penny Magazine On-Line - On-line version of a British working class weekly magazine
from the 1830s.
Victorian Web – Extensive background information and source materials on 19th-century
Britain.
World War I Document Archive
Holocaust and Genocide Studies - An international journal full of scholarship pertaining
to the Holocaust and other genocides.
Holocaust History Project – Archive of documents, photographs, recordings, and essays.
Latin American History
Foreign Relations of the United States with Cuba - The US State Department report of
early 1960s relations between the US and Cuba.
Documents Relating to American Foreign Policy, the Cuban Missile Crisis
Latin American Internet Resources - Good link to a number of university and libraries,
hosted at the University of Washington.
Latin American Network Information Center – Comprehensive set of links on Latin
American history, including country-by-country listings.
United States History
Hargrett Library Rare Map Collection - This University of Georgia map collection includes
maps of North America from the 18th century through the 19th century.
Mayflower Web - Includes information about the Mayflower as well as passenger lists,
passenger wills, letters, and books and essays written by other Pilgrims.
https://www.southwestern.edu/history/resources-facilities/ 4/7

--- Page 5 of 7 ---

4/2/26, 2:24 PM Resources & FacilitiesThomas Paine National Historical Association - Contains the full text of all of Paine’s
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
major pieces of writing including Common Sense, African Slavery in America, and The Rights
of Man.
Archiving Early America - Includes the text of many “milestone” historical documents
including information on the Whiskey Rebellion, the Proclamation of Neutrality, Articles of
Confederation, Northwest Ordinance, and the first State of the Union Address.
George Washington Papers - Includes diary entries as well as presidential addresses by
George Washington. The exhibit also has documents from other founders of America
(Franklin, Jefferson, Madison, etc.). Though there is overlap between the two archives,
documents on the founders are readily available and free whereas the Washington Papers will
require a registration for a free 48 hr trial.
Lewis and Clark: The Maps of Exploration, 1507-1814 - This on-line exhibit from the
University of Virginia uses period maps of America to discuss western exploration and
expansion. An excellent site.
Godey’s Lady’s Book - The complete text of several issues of Godey’s Lady’s Books, one of
the most popular magazines during the mid-19th century.
American Slave Narratives: An Online Anthology - Includes excerpts of some of the most
famous slave narratives and covers the slave experience from African enslavement through
emancipation.
Documenting the American South - A superb collection of diaries and memoirs of a variety
of southerners.
Valley of the Shadow Project - The premier collection of Civil War social history
documents available. The project chronicles the lives of two communities on opposite sides of
the Shenandoah Valley.
Civil War Manuscripts at the Southern Historical Collection - The University of North
Carolina’s collections of southern accounts of the Civil War.
Map Collection and Online Resources: Civil War Resources - A large online collection of
maps and documents relating to maps from the American Civil War.
American Civil War Home Page - A collection of northern and southern accounts of the
Civil War as well as a few legal and constitutional documents pertaining to the war.
https://www.southwestern.edu/history/resources-facilities/ 5/7

--- Page 6 of 7 ---

4/2/26, 2:24 PM Resources & FacilitiesWar in Perspective, 1898-1998: Public Appeals, Memory, and the Spanish American
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Conflict - New York Public Library exhibit on public memory, presentation, and war.
World War I Political Cartoons - Political cartoons and cartoons with other purposes
about World War 1 printed in the US.
Roosevelt Institute - A think tank and a student network, with chapters around the US and
a number of publications and resources readily available. Their work focuses on corporate and
public power, labor laws, and intersectional economic inequalities. Also partners with Franklin
D. Roosevelt Presidential Library and Museum.
World War II Propaganda Posters - Rich collection of World War II propaganda posters
from the Minnesota Public Library.
Fifties Web - A fun and informative site focusing on the popular culture of the 1950s and
60s.
The Martin Luther King, Jr., Research and Education Institute - A limited on-line version
of Stanford University’s multi-volume anthology of Dr. King’s writings.
The African American Mosaic - A rich site that includes photos, maps, songs, and other
documents dealing with African American history.
History of Science, Medicine, and Technology
Exploring and Collecting History Online (ECHO): Science, Technology, and Industry –
Comprehensive and well-organized collection of links.
Internet History of Science Sourcebook – Primary sources, primarily from European
history.
Anatomia Collection, University of Toronto Library – About 4,500 plates from anatomy
texts, dating from 1522-1867.
Edgar Fahs Smith Collection – The history of chemistry before 1850 in text and images,
hosted by the University of Pennsylvania Libraries.
Alchemy Web Site – Compendium of information and primary sources on the history of
alchemy.
https://www.southwestern.edu/history/resources-facilities/ 6/7

--- Page 7 of 7 ---

4/2/26, 2:24 PM Resources & FacilitiesHistorical Math Monographs – Cornell University’s online collection of historically
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
important papers in mathematics.
Galileo Project - A wealth of information about Galileo, his work, trial, and his Italian,
European and scientific contexts.
Complete Work of Charles Darwin Online – Includes not only published work, but also
20,000 private papers.
Albert Einstein Online - a compendium of overviews, primary sources, and photos
Oxford Museum of the History of Science - Excellent on-line exhibits.
National Library of Medicine – More excellent on-line exhibits.
GEORGETOWN, TEXAS
512.863.6511
CONTACT
https://www.southwestern.edu/history/resources-facilities/ 7/7