--- Page 1 of 2 ---

Economics and Businessabout:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.southwestern.edu%2Fecono...
southwestern.edu
Economics and Business
3–4 minutes
When you study economics and business at Southwestern, you
become a problem-solver and a decision-maker. You will be
equipped to examine complex puzzles, analyze them from multiple
perspectives, and develop effective solutions. In business courses,
you will gain a systems-level view of how organizations operate:
How do entrepreneurs build a business from concept to reality?
What are the effects of miscommunication or informal group
dynamics in the workplace? How do different types of businesses
develop successful financial and marketing strategies? In
economics classes, you will learn about the ways that public policy
can affect a country’s economy—and therefore individual lives.
You will examine the causes and consequences of poverty,
discrimination, and climate change and develop effective solutions
to these and other issues.
In both majors, you will learn and apply foundational concepts
related to the production, distribution, and consumption of goods
and services. But our award-winning faculty are also committed to
updating the curriculum to keep pace with innovation, enabling you
to think about, for example, the economic costs of pollution, how
globalization affects business practices, and how technologies
such as artificial intelligence and blockchain can help businesses
1 of 3 3/30/26, 11:11 AM

--- Page 2 of 2 ---

Economics and Businessabout:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.southwestern.edu%2Fecono...
obtain a competitive edge. You can also delve into data analysis,
learning how to conduct cost–benefit analyses and make decisions
about effective resource allocation.
While pursuing your degree, you will have a diverse range of
opportunities to participate in relevant transformative experiences
that enable you to bridge classroom discussion with real-world
applications. Our students have studied abroad with the
Southwestern London Program and have interned with the Federal
Reserve Bank, Southwest Airlines, the Texas Bowl, Accenture,
and the Smithsonian. Undergraduate research enables you to
push your understanding of the field, and our students regularly
present at national meetings and publish their research in
professional journals. In addition, in our groundbreaking Financial
Analyst Program, you can gain invaluable experience in portfolio
management by working with a team of students actively investing
a portion of the University’s endowment.
SU economics and business students often double-major or minor
in subjects across the curriculum, including political science,
environmental studies, math and computer science, theatre,
communication studies, and psychology. And because you will
gain a strong foundation in logic and management skills, you will
be prepared to pursue careers in multiple fields: physicians rely on
savvy business strategy to establish successful practices, and
theater managers must have a sound background in overseeing
production, operations, and marketing budgets. Our graduates
have gone on to careers as social-media strategists, policy
analysts, patent lawyers, financial economists, diversity and
inclusion specialists, and even cheese buyers for reputed national
grocery chains.
2 of 3 3/30/26, 11:11 AM