--- Page 1 of 2 ---

Financial Analyst Programabout:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.southwestern.edu%2Fecono...
southwestern.edu
Financial Analyst Program
~3 minutes
About the Program
During the 1998-1999 academic year the Department of
Economics and Business introduced a new undergraduate
business honors curriculum - The Financial Analyst Program,
under the leadership of Professor A. J. Senchack, holder of the
Lucy King Brown Chair in Economics. In March, 1999, the Fiscal
Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees fully endorsed the
program, and the Board of Trustees approved and authorized the
creation of the Student Investment Fund (the “Fund”), subject to
the adoption by the Board of investment policies and procedures.
At the December 1999 meeting of the board of Trustees,
investment policies and procedures were adopted and the Fund
was ready for operations.
The Fund is actively managed by Student Portfolio Managers (the
“Analysts”) under the guidance and advice of the faculty in the
Department of Economics and Business. The Fund provides an
opportunity for a small group of outstanding students to work
closely with the faculty and other investment professionals to
develop their skills. The program provides students with a real-
world experience in the construction and on-going management of
1 of 2 3/30/26, 11:12 AM

--- Page 2 of 2 ---

Financial Analyst Programabout:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.southwestern.edu%2Fecono...
an investment portfolio.
The Fund is authorized to manage the investment portfolio subject
to the same conditions and limitations that apply to any other
investment manager for the University Endowment Fund. The
Vice President for Fiscal Affairs and Associate Vice President for
Finance are charged with providing the guidance and assistance
to the Fund, and will ensure that the Fund is operated on a fiscally-
sound basis. The Fiscal Affairs office will review all proposed
transactions within the Fund, and if the investment policies and
procedures are being met, the transactions normally will be
approved. However, should the need arise, the Vice President for
Fiscal Affairs and/or Associate Vice President for Finance is free
and authorized to override decisions or to take independent
action. These procedures will help to avoid problems with
fiduciary responsibility and eliminate timing issues due to the
academic calendar.
Students Interested in Applying
For sophomore or junior students interested in joining the Financial
Analyst Program (FAP), applications are due February 22nd at
midnight. Please e-mail Sam McClure at
mcclures@southwestern.edu if you are interested and have any
questions. The application form can be obtained on the
Resources/Links page.
Advisor E-mail: nguyen4@southwestern.edu
Office: Mood-Bridwell Hall 307
2 of 2 3/30/26, 11:12 AM