--- Page 1 of 23 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/economics-and-business/notable-faculty-...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
EECCOONNOOMMIICCSS AANNDD BBUUSSIINNEESSSS
Notable Faculty & Student Achievements
DDeecceemmbbeerr 22002255
Assistant Professor of Economics Dinushka Paranavitana presented two papers at the
95th Annual Meeting of the Southern Economic Association on November 22–24 in Tampa.
She presented her papers titled “The Price of Hate: The Effect of Title IX Exemptions on
College Enrollment” and “Chiropractor Scope of Practice Laws” at two different sessions at
the conference. She was also the discussant for a graduate student session, and provided
feedback for an Economics PhD student on the job market this year.
OOccttoobbeerr 22002255
For the first time,was represented at the 2025 HSI Battle of the
Brains, a premier national competition that brings together top student talent from across
the country to solve real-world business and technology challenges. Southwestern’s
inaugural team included eight exceptional students: Asin Allavudeen ’27, Santiago Cuevas
’26, Cassidie Gomez ’26, Julyssa Hernandez ’27, Yeva-Mariya Hayko ’26, Anna Hulett
’28, Alyanna Martinez ’27, and Juan Carlos Martinez Varela ’27. Selected through a
competitive internal application process, the students participated in a 24-hour cross-
1 of 24 3/30/26, 11:17 AM

--- Page 2 of 23 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/economics-and-business/notable-faculty-...
disciplinary challenge integrating computer science, marketing, finance, and sustainable
business strategy. They also engaged in professional development workshops led by
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
industry leaders from Dell Technologies, eBay, Thrivent Financial, Capital One, and The
Home Depot. Southwestern’s team earned first place in the Video Marketing Challenge, an
interactive activity sponsored by Kickin It ATX that tested their creativity and collaboration
under a time constraint. In addition, Juan Carlos Martinez Varela was awarded scholarships
from both Dell Technologies and eBay in recognition of his outstanding academic and
professional accomplishments and his ability to make a lasting impression on company
representatives throughout the event. Special thanks to the faculty and staff who
coordinated the team’s participation: Hispanic Academic Success Coordinator Amalia
Merino, Director of the Center for Career & Professional Development Adrian D. Ramirez,
Associate Professor of Spanish Abby Dings, and Professor of Business Debika Sihi.
Gratitude is also extended to the blind judges who assisted with the internal selection
process, Assistant Vice President of Admission Christine Bowman, Director of Admission
Jaime Gonzalez, and Professor of Kinesiology Scott McLean, as well as Visual Content
Producer Todd White for photography and videography of the event.
SSeepptteemmbbeerr 22002255
2 of 24 3/30/26, 11:17 AM

--- Page 3 of 23 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/economics-and-business/notable-faculty-...
Professor of Business Debika Sihi had her chapter titled “Advertising and Connected
Experiences Through Smart Home Devices” accepted for publication in the forthcoming
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
book Developing Digital Narratives in Marketing Communication. This chapter examines
how smart home devices like speakers, TVs, and appliances create marketing opportunities
through personalized, interactive ads. While convenience and relevance are benefits,
challenges include privacy concerns and ad fatigue. Both marketers and consumers stress
the need for trust, non-intrusive design, and ethical, transparent strategies as device
adoption grows amid evolving privacy rules.
AAuugguusstt 22002255
Assistant Professor of Economics and Business Raji Kunapuli organized a professional
development workshop titled “AI-Enabled New Research Methods in Entrepreneurship and
Strategy” at the Academy of Management Conference in Copenhagen, Denmark. The
workshop drew more than 250 research scholars and explored cutting-edge AI-based
methods for management research, including text analysis and AI-enabled experimental
designs.
JJuullyy 22002255
Assistant Professor of Economics Hieu Nguyen recently had a research article, titled “Who
are we up against? Heterogeneous group contests with incomplete information,” accepted,
3 of 24 3/30/26, 11:17 AM

--- Page 4 of 23 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/economics-and-business/notable-faculty-...
and subsequently published, in the Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization. In this
paper, Dr. Nguyen and his two co-authors use a laboratory experiment to test the
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
theoretical predictions of an inter-group Tullock contest model in which players have
incomplete information about their opponent and may be subject to an advantage or
disadvantage. In reconciling theory and experimental evidence, the researchers propose
and test an extended model that incorporates some insights on players’ non-monetary
utility of winning and in-group altruism from the social psychology literature. The article’s
findings provide important implications for the future design of group competitions, and are
potentially applicable to many legal, governmental, and scientific settings. The study’s
published and preprint versions are available here and here.
Assistant Professor of Economics and Business Raji Kunapuli published an article titled
“Expert Decision-making Complexity in New Industries: The Case of Security Analysts” in
the Journal of Behavioral Decision Making. This article examines how expert security
analysts might be hindering the emergence of new technological firms.
MMaayy 22002255
Professor of BusinessDebika Sihi was selected to the Marketing Management Association
(MMA) Board of Directors to serve a three-year term. In this role, Debika will have the
opportunity to help shape the strategic direction of the organization and contribute to the
continued growth and success of future marketing scholars, including service related to
doctoral student consortiums and editorial/review work for conference proceedings and
affiliated journals.
4 of 24 3/30/26, 11:17 AM

--- Page 5 of 23 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/economics-and-business/notable-faculty-...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Professional Academic Advisor Jenny Terry Roberts ’95 received the Organization Advisor
of the Year Award for her work with SU’s chapter of Alpha Phi Omega, the gender-inclusive
national service fraternity. APO was founded 100 years ago on the principles of leadership,
friendship, and service; the Alpha Gamma Kappa chapter was chartered at SU in 1991.
Jenny joined in her first semester as a student at Southwestern and loves helping current
students keep it going strong. Additional awesome SU APO Advisors include Faculty
Advisor Debika Sihi, Community Advisor Paul Ford ’00, and Scouting Advisor Scott
Roberts ’94.
AApprriill 22002255
Olivia Bakke ’25, Zachary Collins ’25, Shobby Enakpene ’26, Christina Kuras ’25, Kacy
Miller ’26, Abby Ryan ’25, Elise Samples ’25, and Vanessa Villarreal ’25 participated in
the National Collegiate Digital Marketing Championship held at Baylor University’s
Hankamer School of Business on April 1. All students demonstrated fantastic mastery of
digital marketing strategy.
5 of 24 3/30/26, 11:17 AM

--- Page 6 of 23 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/economics-and-business/notable-faculty-...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
MMaarrcchh 22002255
Professor of Sociology Maria Lowe, sociology and business graduate ThuyMi Phung ’23,
and sociology and art history graduate Katherine Holcomb ’23 presented their co-
authored paper titled “The Interaction of Race and Racial Grievance: Predictors of American
Attitudes about Critical Race Theory” at the Eastern Sociological Society annual meeting in
Boston from March 6-9.
Professor of BusinessDebika Sihi co-hosted a panel with Hannah Walters, Associate
Professor of Marketing at Northern State University and author of “AI in Marketing:
Applications, Insights, and Analysis,” at the Marketing Management Association Spring
Conference. The panel explored four initiatives for integrating AI as a tool to develop critical
thinking across marketing courses. Debika also presented her early-stage research project
titled, “Place Marketing: Bridging the Gap Between Longtime Locals, Newcomers, and
Tourists through Digital Marketing,” which examines how city marketing and
communications teams manage the evolving brand identity of fast-growing communities.
Assistant Professor of Economics Hieu Nguyen had a research article accepted for
publication in the peer-reviewed Journal of Comparative International Management. Dr.
Nguyen, the study’s main contributor, and his co-authors, Quang Evansluong of Umeå
University and Aliaksei Kazlou of Linköping University, employed the Getis-Ord statistic, a
local indicator of spatial autocorrelation, and a combination of publicly available and
restricted-access data on new business formation in Sweden, to extend the existing
discourse on native and immigrant entrepreneurship. The selection and agglomeration
6 of 24 3/30/26, 11:17 AM

--- Page 7 of 23 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/economics-and-business/notable-faculty-...
theories of economics and the disadvantage and cultural-capital theories of
entrepreneurship research were used to rationalize some of the patterns observed in the
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
study. A link to the paper’s preprint is available here.
JJaannuuaarryy 22002255
Sociology and business alumna ThuyMi Phung ’23 has published an article with Professor
of Sociology Maria Lowe titled “The Armed Home and Support for Trump: Predictors of
Americans’ Attitudes Toward Gun Violence” in the Journal of Integrated Social Sciences.
This work represents ThuyMi’s first peer-reviewed publication and stems from her Fall 2022
capstone project. The article can be found here. ThuyMi continues her research on attitudes
about gun violence at the University of Washington where she is completing her Master’s in
Public Health.
Abigail (Abby) Ryan ’25 and Professor of Business Debika Sihi have published their
research, “Crafting and Evaluating Generative AI Prompts: Insights from Students,
Educators, and Marketers,” in Marketing Education Review. This work draws on perspectives
from these different groups to design a prompt engineering assignment that can be
integrated into a variety of marketing courses. The abstract of the article can be read here.
7 of 24 3/30/26, 11:17 AM

--- Page 8 of 23 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/economics-and-business/notable-faculty-...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
DDeecceemmbbeerr 22002244
Alumna Samantha (Sammi) Saenz ’23 earned the third highest performer distinction for
the Enterprise Management Program, covering the entire geographic area spanning from
the Rio Grande Valley to San Antonio. In her role, she engages in marketing, sales, and
customer success management.
Assistant Professor of Economics Dinushka Paranavitana chaired a session titled “Health
Behavior I” at the 94th Annual Meeting of the Southern Economic Association in
Washington D.C. from November 23 – 24. She also presented her paper titled “The
Unintended Consequences of Women’s Clinic Closures on Preventive Care” during this
same session. This paper was also presented at the Association for Public Policy Analysis
and Management Fall Research Conference at National Harbor, MD from November 21 – 23.
Professor of BusinessDebika Sihi and two of her first-year seminar students, Abigail
Norton ’28 and Mateo Torres ’28, were featured in a Litmaps Community Highlight, a
newsletter received by over 100,000 researchers all over the world. The students were
highlighted for their work visually mapping a literature review. The piece is available here.
(Students granted permission to share their work, and the students’ names were redacted
on the piece to protect their privacy due to the wide distribution of the newsletter, so they
have agency on if/how they want to share the piece.)
8 of 24 3/30/26, 11:17 AM

--- Page 9 of 23 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/economics-and-business/notable-faculty-...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Assistant Professor of Economics Chandrayee Chatterjee had two research papers
presented at the 2024 Annual Conference of the Southern Economic Association in
Washington, D.C. from November 23–25. She presented a paper titled “Examining the
Spillover Effects of Weight Loss Product Advertising on Nutritional Choice and Physical
Activity.” Her paper titled “The Role of Inattention in Statistical Discrimination” was also
presented by her co-author at a different session.
NNoovveemmbbeerr 22002244
Professor of BusinessDebika Sihi joined the Editorial Review Board of the Journal of
Applied Marketing Theory, a double-blind, peer-reviewed journal that publishes articles
focused on academic research with contributions for marketing practitioners and
academics.
9 of 24 3/30/26, 11:17 AM

--- Page 10 of 23 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/economics-and-business/notable-faculty-...
ASIANetwork/Luce PostDoc Fellow in Economics Maorui Yang published “Long-Run Effects
of Childhood Exposure to Medical Marijuana Laws on Education and Labor Market
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Outcomes,” along with co-author Han Yu, in the Journal of Labor Research (2024): 1-33.
Assistant Professor of Business Raji Kunapuli presented a solo-authored paper, titled
“Effect of Abstract Language on Critics’ Selection of Referents for IPOs” at the Southern
Management Academy Conference in San Antonio, TX.
OOccttoobbeerr 22002244
Sam Irizarry ’23 was an invited panelist at the Texas Communicators Network meeting
focused on the topic “Connect & Conserve Through Social Media.” He represented Hill
Country Conservancy, where he enhances the organization’s online presence through
content strategy, social media management, and digital storytelling. More information about
the panel can be found here.
10 of 24 3/30/26, 11:17 AM

--- Page 11 of 23 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/economics-and-business/notable-faculty-...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
AAuugguusstt 22002244
Associate Professors of Business Gaby Flores and Hazel Nguyen, along with colleagues,
published an article titled “The only daughter effect: Examining the impact of child gender
on a CEO’s hiring decisions” in Equality, Diversity and Inclusion: An International Journal.
The paper, which examines gender bias in top management hiring, can be found here.
JJuullyy 22002244
Associate Professor of Business Debika Sihi published an article titled “Sustainability and
Marketing: Examining the Digital Impacts” in the book Advances in Digital Marketing and
eCommerce by Springer. She virtually presented this work examining the developing
standards, measurement, and disclosure of environmental impacts related to the advertising
industry at the Digital Marketing and e-Commerce Conference held June 26-28 in
Barcelona, Spain.
AApprriill 22002244
Two East Asian Studies faculty members, Associate Professor of Art History Allison
Miller and Visiting Professor of Economics Maorui Yang, and two students attended the
11 of 24 3/30/26, 11:17 AM

--- Page 12 of 23 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/economics-and-business/notable-faculty-...
ASIANetwork conference in Atlanta, Georgia from April 12-14. Natalie Davis ’27 presented
her poster titled, “Dueling Depictions: Zhang Zhixin and the Politics of Femininity in Chinese
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Scar Art.” Kate Medlock ’26 presented her poster titled, “Reviving the Past: A Mid-Western
Zhou Jade Pendant and its Neolithic References.” Maorui presented on the panel, “Teaching
and Research in the Liberal Arts: ASIANetwork-Luce Postdoctoral Fellows.”
Olivia Bakke ’25, Logan LeBlanc ’25, and Abby Ryan ’25 competed in the National
Collegiate Digital Marketing Championships hosted by Baylor University on April 10-11. They
competed in all the events and demonstrated outstanding team camaraderie. Logan won
the Viral Competition on YouTube marketing.
MMaarrcchh 22002244
Associate Professor of Business Debika Sihi and Student Researcher Abigail (Abby)
Ryan ’25 presented their research project, “Proactively Leveraging Generative AI Tools in
Marketing Courses: A Process for Prompt Engineering Assignments” at the Marketing
Management Association’s Spring Educators Conference on March 21-22.
12 of 24 3/30/26, 11:17 AM

--- Page 13 of 23 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/economics-and-business/notable-faculty-...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Assistant Professor of Economics Chandrayee Chatterjee presented her co-authored
paper titled “Spillover Effects of Advertising: Do TV Advertisements for Non-Food Health
Products Promote Healthy Food Choices?” at the American Marketing Association Winter
Academic Conference at St. Pete’s Beach, FL, on February 25. The paper was accepted for
a session in the competitive paper category.
Visiting Assistant Professor of Theatre Amy King wrote, directed, and produced a staged
reading of her new play Finger Lickin’ Goodat the Jones Theatre in February. The cast
included students Jason Bui ’27 as Raymond, Kyle Bussone-Peterson ’24 as Kevin,
and Connor Bustos ’26 on stage directions. They were joined by guest Gina Houston in the
leading role of Alice and Director of Business Internships and Assistant Professor of
Business Andy Ross as Jim, etc., in his acting debut! The reading was also performed at
Austin Community College in Highland Park.
FFeebbrruuaarryy 22002244
Assistant Professor of Economics Chandrayee Chatterjee was invited to present her work
in the Economics Seminar Series at the Department of Economics and Decision Sciences at
Western Illinois University. She presented her paper titled “Spillover Effects of Advertising
on Health Behavior and Nutritional Choices” virtually on February 16th.
13 of 24 3/30/26, 11:17 AM

--- Page 14 of 23 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/economics-and-business/notable-faculty-...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
NNoovveemmbbeerr 22002233
Assistant Professor of Economics Chandrayee Chatterjee jointly organized a session called
“The Economics of Risky Behavior” and presented her paper titled “Vaping Regulations and
Mental Health of Teenagers” at the 2023 Annual Conference of the Southern Economic
Association in New Orleans from November 18th to 20th.
NNoovveemmbbeerr 22002211
Associate Professor of Business Debika Sihi published her coauthored paper
“Implementing Big Data Analytics in Marketing Departments: Mixing Organic and
Administered Approaches to Increase Data-Driven Decision Making” in Informatics. The
paper examines different strategies utilized by marketing departments to become more
data-driven in their decision making.
14 of 24 3/30/26, 11:17 AM

--- Page 15 of 23 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/economics-and-business/notable-faculty-...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
OOccttoobbeerr 22002211
Associate Professor of Business Debika Sihi participated on a panel about innovations to
connect students with industry practice at the Marketing Management Association
Conference, held virtually October 13–15. Sihi also presented her research project titled
“Remaining Relevant and Renewing Perceptions: The Use of Interactive Marketing by Small
Businesses during Operational Disruptions” at the Interactive Marketing Research
Conference, held virtually October 20–22 and 25–26 and hosted by the Gabelli School of
Business at Fordham University.
Assistant Professor of Business Raji Kunapuli’s co-authored paper titled “Seeking Input
When the Train Has Left the Station: The Decoupling of Participative Strategic Decision-
Making Processes and the Role of New Technology in Symbolic Management” was
published in the journal Strategic Organization.
AAuugguusstt 22002211
Associate Professor of Business Debika Sihi helps different organizations develop
marketing campaigns to highlight the importance of budgeting and financial literacy,
stemming from her days as a volunteer with Junior Achievement. Recently, she shared
insights about budgeting for college students in U.S. News & World Report.
15 of 24 3/30/26, 11:17 AM

--- Page 16 of 23 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/economics-and-business/notable-faculty-...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
JJuunnee 22002211alumni Jose Melendez ’20 and Mikayla Miller ’19 graduated from
the Rice University master of accounting program this May.
MMaayy 22002211
Part-Time Assistant Professor of Economics Mohammad Khan had an article titled
“Household Evacuation Planning and Preparation for Future Hurricanes: Role of Utility
Service Disruptions” accepted for publication in the journal Transportation Research
Record.
Please join us in congratulating the recipients of the following awards:
• 2021 Teaching Awards
16 of 24 3/30/26, 11:17 AM

--- Page 17 of 23 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/economics-and-business/notable-faculty-...
• Tenured: Associate Professor of Education Alicia Moore
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
• Tenure-track: Assistant Professor of Business Gabriela Flores
• Visiting, part-time, and staff with faculty rank: Director of General Chemistry
Labs Willis Weigand
• 2021 Jesse E. Purdy Excellence in Scholarly and Creative Works Award
• Tenured: Associate Professor of Communication Studies Bob Bednar
• Tenure-track: Assistant Professor of History Joseph Hower
• 2021 Excellence in Advising Award
• Professor of SpanishLaura Senio Blair
AApprriill 22002211
Business and biology major Andrew Vergote ’21 gave a talk titled “Novel Bioinks: The
Gateway to Bioprinting Complex Biological Tissues” at the 2021 BBB South Central Virtual
Regional Convention. The talk resulted from research that Vergote completed with Assistant
Professor of Physics Cody Crosby in spring 2021. They plan to continue this research as a
funded Faculty–Student Project this summer.
17 of 24 3/30/26, 11:17 AM

--- Page 18 of 23 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/economics-and-business/notable-faculty-...
Nereida Zarco ’16 and Associate Professor of Economics and Business Debika Sihi were
selected as members of the inaugural Marketing EDGE Ambassador program, a select
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
group of corporate professionals, students, and academics that help connect students to
opportunities in the field of marketing.
Associate Professor of Economics and Business Debika Sihi was invited to join the editorial
review board for the Journal of Business Research under the Big Data and Analytics track.
FFeebbuurraarryy 22002211
Assistant Professor of Business and Director of Business InternshipsAndy Ross presented
“Designing a Study Abroad Program for Business Students” at the 13th annual Virginia Tech
Conference on Higher Education Pedagogy on February 5, 2021.
JJaannuuaarryy 22002211
18 of 24 3/30/26, 11:17 AM

--- Page 19 of 23 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/economics-and-business/notable-faculty-...
Associate Professor of Business Debika Sihi provided insights about Netflix’s audio-only
version of its content in an article for Lifewire, a technology information website (ranked a
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
top-10 tech information site in 2017). Read the article here.
Part-Time Assistant Professor of Economics Mohammad Khan presented a paper titled
“The Deadly Connection between Hurricanes and Sinkholes: Analyzing Market Responses
to Multiple Environmental Risks” at the virtual Allied Social Science Association 2021 Annual
Meeting on January 3.
NNoovveemmbbeerr 22002200
Associate Professor of Business Debika Sihi presented a coauthored project titled “The Use
of Social Media and Social Interaction in Crowdsourcing in the FFE (fuzzy front end) of
NPD” at the Society of Marketing Advances Annual Conference November 4–7, 2020. This
project examines the impact of online versus offline mechanisms of crowdsourcing on idea
generation during the new product development process.
19 of 24 3/30/26, 11:17 AM

--- Page 20 of 23 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/economics-and-business/notable-faculty-...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
OOccttoobbeerr 22002200
Associate Professor of Business Debika Sihi presented and chaired a panel titled “Calm
during Crisis: Creating Classroom Environments that Foster Learning and Collaboration” at
the Marketing Management Association Conference October 28–30, 2020. She and two
colleagues (from a private and public university) led a discussion on different initiatives to
support and engage students during a challenging academic year.
Associate Professor of Business Hazel Nguyen and economics graduate Diana Trevino ’20
presented their research titled “They’ve Figured It out! Gender Differences in Executive
Language Styles through Shareholders’ Letters” at the virtual Financial Management
Association Annual Meeting on October 23. The presentation was based on work conducted
as part of SCOPE 2019. In their project, Nguyen and Trevino ask whether there are
differences in language and communication styles used by female versus male CEOs and
how these language differences represent differences in leadership styles. They find that
there are significant differences in thematic tones between female and male CEOs. Female
CEOs’ languages are more comprehensible and emphasize transformational changes,
optimism, mutual understanding, and rapport more than those of male CEOs while also
being more resolute and authoritative.
Part-Time Professor of Economics Jim Christianson was one of three Austin certified
public accountants selected via a random drawing to serve on the the City of Austin
Applicant Review Panel. This panel will select 60 applicants for the City of Austin
Independent Citizens Redistricting Commission, which is charged with redrawing the 10
20 of 24 3/30/26, 11:17 AM

--- Page 21 of 23 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/economics-and-business/notable-faculty-...
City of Austin Council districts after the 2020 census is complete. Christianson teaches
Accounting and Business Law at Southwestern.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Associate Director of Admission Rebecca Rother and Associate Professor of Economics
and Business Debika Sihi presented a session about business degrees in the liberal arts
through the Colleges that Change Lives virtual program.
SSeepptteemmbbeerr 22002200
Associate Professor of Business Debika Sihi was interviewed, along with the vice president
of brand at E.l.f. Cosmetics and faculty from the University of Virginia and Carnegie Mellon,
for an article in Retail Dive on what the future of TikTok means for retail. Read the article
here .
AAuugguusstt 22002200
21 of 24 3/30/26, 11:17 AM

--- Page 22 of 23 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/economics-and-business/notable-faculty-...
Associate Professor of Business Debika Sihi taught a class on August 4, 2020, titled
Marketing for Start-Ups during COVID-19 for 25 entrepreneurs. She offered guidance on
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
developing and adapting marketing strategies in the current economic environment. On
August 7, 2020, Sihi was an invited speaker at the virtual Summer Stukent Digital Summit,
where she conducted a session titled “Cookies, Clicks, and Credit Cards: Teaching Students
How Their Data Is Used and Protected.” The session covered how to structure multiple class
lessons on data use and privacy. Specific topics included the consumer privacy paradox and
the current regulatory environment (e.g., the General Data Protection Regulation and the
California Consumer Privacy Act).
JJuullyy 22002200
Five Southwestern students, Tanmai Korapala ’21, Melanie Lim ’21, Cassidy
Mayfield ’20, Thuymi Phung ’23, and Blake Stilwell ’22, completed the Marketing EDGE
Summer Series, in which they participated in interactive sessions with the director of
graduate development at Equifax, the vice president of marketing for the Brooklyn Nets, the
CEO of FishUSA, Inc., and university students around the country.
MMaayy 22002200
Emeritus Professor of Economics Emily Northrop’s op-ed about climate change and
COVID-19 was featured in AL.com. It can be read here.
22 of 24 3/30/26, 11:17 AM

--- Page 23 of 23 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/economics-and-business/notable-faculty-...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
JJaannuuaarryy 22002200
Associate Professor of Business Debika Sihi served as a judge for the American Marketing
Association (AMA) Collegiate Case Competition in collaboration with Cotton Incorporated.
The competition includes submissions from student teams from different universities across
the U.S.
GGEEOORRGGEETTOOWWNN,, TTEEXXAASS
551122..886633..66551111
23 of 24 3/30/26, 11:17 AM