--- Page 1 of 2 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
FFEEMMIINNIISSTT SSTTUUDDIIEESS
Courses
Below you will find a list of our current or recent offerings. See the course catalog for
descriptions and updated information.
0044--110044 IInnttrroodduuccttiioonn ttoo FFeemmiinniisstt SSttuuddiieess
This course is designed to think critically about the intellectual, emotional, spiritual, and
political capacities of feminist thought. We will explore the diversity of feminisms that have
emerged from historical movements alongside contemporary discourses. As a class, we will
explore how feminist theory is a tool used to deconstruct injustice and articulate alternatives
to oppression. There will be emphasis on the body and the ways intersectional approaches
reckon with difference in regard to identity (gender, sexuality, race, citizenship, class,
disability). Contributes to Race and Ethnicity Studies/Allied Course. (H) (ScS) (SJ)(PJ)
0044--220044 FFeemmiinniisstt TThheeoorriieess aanndd MMeetthhooddss
This course traces the intellectual traditions of contemporary feminist theories and
practices. Topics will include feminist methodologies and the formation of, and challenges
to, the discipline of Feminist Studies. Prerequisite: Feminist Studies 04-104. (H) (WA)
0044--228844 TTooppiiccss iinn FFeemmiinniisstt TThheeoorryy
Using an interdisciplinary framework, this course traces key debates in contemporary
feminist theory. Areas of concentration might include theories of the body, queer theory,
migration and borders, critical race theory, or methodology. (H)
0044--330044 SSeelleecctteedd TTooppiiccss
May be repeated with change in topic. (ScS)
0044--331144 LLaattiinnaa LLeessbbiiaann LLiitteerraattuurree

--- Page 2 of 2 ---

This course critically examines literary expressions of Latina lesbian identity, sexuality,
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
politics, and culture from the late twentieth century into our contemporary moment.
Through close readings of novels, essays, and poems, students will analyze how Latina
lesbians navigate and resist intersectional oppressions while also situating Latina lesbian
literature within a larger women of color feminist tradition. Topics include coming-of-age
and coming out, butch/femme identities, sexual politics, love and relationships, family and
culture, gender variance, and more. Prerequisite: FST04-104 or an instructor-approved
alternative. Contributes to English, Latin American and Border Studies, and Race and
Ethnicity Studies/Concepts Course. (H)
0044--332244 RRaaddiiccaall WWoommeenn ooff CCoolloorr
Inspired by the 1981 anthology This Bridge Called My Back: Writings by Radical Women of
Color, this interdisciplinary course focuses on the literature, politics, and activism of women
of color who forward radical visions of justice. Through an exploration of women of color
feminist thought across the late twentieth century into our contemporary moment, students
examine how women of color critically challenge settler colonialism, white supremacy,
cisheteropatriarchy, classism, ableism, and imperialism. Topics include queer and trans
liberation, reproductive justice, bodily and sexual autonomy, abolitionist feminism, disability
justice, and more. Prerequisite: Feminist Studies 04-104 or an instructor-approved
alternative. Contributes to Race and Ethnicity Studies/Concepts Course. (H)
0044--993344 SSeenniioorr SSeemmiinnaarr
(Fall) (WA)