--- Page 1 of 2 ---

southwestern.edu
Feminist Studies
2–3 minutes
The Feminist Studies curriculum exposes students to the large and
ever-growing body of knowledge that makes up the broad category
of feminist and gender studies, combining feminist theory with
analyses of feminist activism, identifications, and practices.
Our program provides a critical exploration of how prominent
categories of difference—gender, race, class, sexuality, disability,
age, religion and nation—are constituted, challenged, and altered
across time and place.
Part of this project involves revising the findings of traditional
disciplines to include knowledge generated through a variety of
feminist methodologies.
Students with an academic focus in feminist theories and
methodologies are well prepared to succeed in a variety of fields,
including non-profit and social services, law, journalism, theology,
public policy, health care, cultural studies, education, and
numerous other traditional disciplines within the academy.
Feminist Studies is one of the Paideia Minors. Paideia provides
intentional opportunities for students to integrate various academic
disciplines and experiences, empowering them to develop
versatile analytical abilities that lead them to become creative

--- Page 2 of 2 ---

problem solvers who are well equipped to tackle complex issues.
Paideia is not a traditional program but provides innovative,
structured pathways that enable the acquisition of these invaluable
skills.
All SU students are encouraged to graduate with Paideia
Distinction by making Paideia a formal part of their studies. This
requires completing either one of the Paideia Minors (or two High-
Impact Experiences) and successfully completing a Paideia
Seminar.
Graduation with Paideia Distinction formally recognizes students’
cultivated curiosity to learn, integrate multiple viewpoints, and
create change. The Paideia skills that students develop make SU
graduates highly sought-after by recruiters, employers, and
graduate programs.
Learn more about the Paideia Seminar, how to apply for it, and
how to graduate with Paideia Distinction.