--- Page 1 of 13 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
FFEEMMIINNIISSTT SSTTUUDDIIEESS
Notable Faculty & Student Achievements
NNoovveemmbbeerr 22002255
Assistant Professor of Feminist Studies Meagan Solomon attended the 2025 National
Women’s Studies Association (NWSA) Conference in San Juan, Puerto Rico (Borikén) from
November 13–16. She presented on a roundtable titled “Archiving Malflora: Latina/e Lesbian
Memory Work as Decolonial Praxis,” along with four other members of Malflora Collective, her
collaborative PEH project focused on preserving Latina/e lesbian histories. The roundtable
focused on creative strategies for archiving community stories through zine-making,
podcasting, and digital archival practices, while also contending with the fraught nature of
online platforms.
Professor of Anthropology Melissa Johnson and her Summer 2025 SURF students presented
their findings at the 13th Race, Ethnicity and Place conference in Albuquerque, NM from
November 5–7. Their panel was titled “Race, Gender, Slavery and Freedom in Everyday Life on
the British coast of Central America, 1750-1830.” Dr. Johnson and three students presented
their papers: anthropology and feminist studies double major Dina Gaxiola ’28 presented “The
Case of Jane Trapp: Race, Gender, Slavery and Freedom in Early British Central America,”
psychology and sociology double major Sophia Hernandez ’28 presented “From Enslavement
to Influence; Gendered Agency, Racial Boundaries, and the Story of Ariadne Broaster,” Dr.
Johnson presented “Living across lines of freedom in the early history of Belize: The origins of

--- Page 2 of 13 ---

the Bonner family,” and biology and environmental studies double major Shae Whitney ’28
presented “Maria Middleton – Slave, Criminal, Transported Convict: Understanding Gender,
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Race and Freedom across the British Colonial World.” The students may have been the only
undergraduates presenting papers at this conference. The papers were well received, with one
audience member sharing that this was the most interesting panel they had attended.
Assistant Professor of Feminist Studies Meagan Solomon published a peer-reviewed article,
titled “Tejano Drag Kings: Reclaiming Space, Place, and Culture Through Performance,” in WSQ:
Women’s Studies Quarterly, a top feminist studies journal. This article theorizes Tejano drag
king performance as a critical source of resistance to state repression and cisheteronormative
cultural standards. While drag kings in general, and Latino drag kings in particular, remain
marginalized subjects in popular drag discourse, this article spotlights the work of Tejano drag
kings and theorizes how their embodied performance and parody of masculinity serves as a
vessel for feminist worldmaking. The article can be accessed here.
Assistant Professor of Feminist Studies Meagan Solomon, alongside her Mellon Publicly-
Engaged Humanities (PEH) Research Assistant Mia Santoscoy ’26, attended the 2025 Lesbian
Lives conference in New York City from October 24–26. They presented on a roundtable titled
“Latina/e Lesbian Archival Praxis and Memory Work: A Plática/Roda de Conversa with Malflora
Collective,” which included seven members of the Latina/e lesbian collective co-founded by Dr.
Solomon with support from the Mellon PEH grant. In the roundtable, Malflora Collective
members discussed the non-traditional and community-based archival practices that Latina/e
lesbians engage in, arguing that their memory work is rooted in collectivity, lived experience,
and cultural reclamation as a form of decolonial praxis. Together, they highlighted how
noninstitutional archives and digital memory projects like Malflora Collective are crucial for
preserving the stories of marginalized communities and fostering transnational solidarity in the
face of cultural and political oppression.

--- Page 3 of 13 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
AAuugguusstt 22002255
Sociology and feminist studies graduate Emily Dimiceli ’25 received an honorable mention for
the prestigious Joe Feagin Undergraduate Paper Award for her fall 2025 sociology capstone
project. This national award, presented by the Sociology of Racial and Ethnic Minorities section
of the American Sociological Association (ASA), recognizes outstanding undergraduate
scholarship. Emily accepted the honor at this year’s ASA meeting in Chicago. In its
commendation, the award committee described Emily’s paper as “ambitious original research…
well-grounded in racial theory, including conceptualizations of colorblind racism and historical
racism.”
MMaayy 22002255
Sociology and feminist studies double major and race and ethnicity studies minor Emily
Dimiceli ’25 has been accepted into the 2025 American Sociological Association’s (ASA)
Honors Program. As a part of the program, she will present her capstone research paper, titled
“‘Obama was voted president by white people’: Predictors of Americans’ Perceptions of
Racism,” at this year’s ASA annual meeting in Chicago, IL.

--- Page 4 of 13 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
MMaarrcchh 22002255
On International Women’s Day, Assistant Professor of Feminist Studies Meagan
Solomon released the first episode of her collaborative podcast, Malflora Podcast, which is a
series of pláticas (community conversations) with Latina/e lesbian activists, writers, artists, and
scholars. Malflora Podcast is published by Malflora Collective, a community project dedicated
to preserving the lives and legacies of Latina/e lesbians. Dr. Solomon first conceptualized
Malflora Collective as a 2024 Mellon Publicly-Engaged Humanities Summer Fellow. Since then,
the project has grown to include a team of nine members, including Communication Studies/
Latin American and Border Studies double major Mia Santoscoy ’26, who is currently serving
as Dr. Solomon’s Research Assistant. In Episode 1 of Malflora Podcast, members from Malflora
Collective introduce themselves and their work memorializing Latina/e lesbian history and
culture. Listen here or on all major streaming platforms.
DDeecceemmbbeerr 22002244

--- Page 5 of 13 ---

On December 9, Assistant Professor of Feminist Studies Meagan Solomon hosted the
Lavender Literary Society’s discussion of Dr. Lydia Otero’s book, L.A. Interchanges: A Brown and
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Queer Archival Memoir. Solomon and Otero engaged in an intergenerational dialogue
centered on queer and lesbian Chicane literature, history, and activism. The virtual event was
coordinated by the American LGBTQ+ Museum and can be viewed here.
NNoovveemmbbeerr 22002244
Assistant Professor of Feminist Studies Meagan Solomon attended the National Women’s
Studies Association Conference in Detroit, MI, where she offered a presentation titled
“Teaching to Transgress Imperialism, Settler Colonialism, and Zionism: The Feminist Studies
Classroom as a ‘Radical Space of Possibility’ in Texas.” She presented her work alongside Drs.
Ruba Akkad of Austin College, Isis Nusair of Denison University, and Iveta Jusova of Carleton
College on the panel, “Anti-Zionist Feminist Pedagogies: Teaching Toward Palestinian
Liberation and an End to the Genocide in Gaza,” which was well-attended by feminist faculty
and students from around the world. Reflecting on her strategies and experiences teaching
about Palestine within a feminist context since arriving at Southwestern in fall of 2023, Dr.
Solomon’s presentation concluded with a recording of SU alumna Brigit Reese’s 2024
commencement speech on Gaza, which received a standing ovation from the audience.
AAuugguusstt 22002244

--- Page 6 of 13 ---

This summer, Assistant Professor of Feminist Studies Meagan Solomon participated in the Los
Angeles Review of Books (LARB) Publishing Workshop to support her Mellon Publicly-Engaged
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Humanities project, Malflora, a forthcoming multimedia platform dedicated to publishing and
preserving Latina/e lesbian stories. In the workshop, she learned from a wide range of speakers
who work in book, magazine, and multimedia publishing and helped produce Issue 7 of the
online magazine, PubLab. As an art director for the magazine, she curated a portfolio of Anel I.
Flores’ paintings focused on lesbian intimacy, bodily autonomy, and queer liberation, which
you can access here.
JJuullyy 22002244
On June 23, Assistant Professor of Feminist Studies Meagan Solomon led a community teach-
in at Alienated Majesty Books entitled “No Pride in Genocide: A Teach-In on Zionist
Pinkwashing.” The teach-in focused on defining and dismantling pinkwashing, or the process
of promoting LGBTQ+ rights to appear progressive while simultaneously upholding oppressive
systems that directly harm LGBTQ+ people, such as settler colonialism and occupation. The
teach-in was part of a larger series of educational events in Austin focused on Palestinian
liberation, which enabled a broader public to engage in critical dialogue informed by activist-
oriented scholarship.
MMaayy 22002244

--- Page 7 of 13 ---

Assistant Professor of Feminist Studies Meagan Solomon participated on a panel entitled
“Atravesades Igniting through Art, Community, and Place-Making” with co-panelists Anel
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Flores and T. Jackie Cuevas at El Mundo Zurdo Conference in San Antonio. She presented her
paper, “Somos Lesbianas: Chicana Lesbian Place-Making and Place-Taking En Comunidad,”
which examines how Chicana lesbians take up art and writing as vessels for challenging
oppressive forces and building coalition in the 1991 anthology “Chicana Lesbians: The Girls
Our Mothers Warned Us About.” edited by Carla Trujillo. In her paper, Solomon examines how
Chicana lesbians integrate and redefine cultural customs in their creative expressions of self,
spirituality, and familia that push back against the heteropatriarchal logics of Chicano
nationalism. Underscoring the anthology form as a critical source of feminist coalition, she
asserts that the voices featured in Chicana Lesbians intervene in dominant discourses on
Chicana lesbian life toward a shared state of conocimiento - a spiritual and activist
consciousness that tasks us with imagining and enacting new worlds.
FFeebbrruuaarryy 22002244
Assistant Professor of Feminist Studies Meagan Solomon participated in the Association for
Jotería Arts, Activism, and Scholarship Conference in Los Angeles, CA, from February 15-18.
With co-discussants X’andrí and Alexandra Salazar, she presented on a roundtable entitled
“The Pleasures and Intimacies of Jotería Spacemaking Within and Beyond the University.” Their
roundtable focused on the necessity of cultivating spaces to exist and commune as jotería
(queer Latinxs) against continued assaults on our humanity. As politicians and their
constituents continue to target and alienate LGBTQ+ folks, this roundtable asserted that jotería
spacemaking is an act of survival.

--- Page 8 of 13 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
NNoovveemmbbeerr 22002233
Assistant Professor of Feminist Studies Meagan Solomon attended the American Studies
Association Conference in Montreal last week, where she chaired and participated in a
roundtable entitled “Community Knowledge and Solidarity Work as Public Scholarship and
Collective Healing.” She presented her collaborative zine project with Ruba Akkad (TCU),
situating zines and zinemaking as forms of community-accountable scholarship and healing.
OOccttoobbeerr 22002233
Assistant Professor of Feminist Studies Meagan Solomon published an essay entitled “Ana
Castillo: A Multigenre Author” in the collection Chicana Portraits: Critical Biographies of Twelve
Chicana Writers, edited by Dr. Norma E. Cantú and published by the University of Arizona
Press. Dr. Solomon’s essay examines the central themes of feminist friendship, queer intimacy,
and women’s spirituality in a selection of Ana Castillo’s essays and novels, including Massacre
of the Dreamers: Essays on Xicanisma (1994), The Mixquiahuala Letters (1986), Sapogonia
(1990), and So Far From God (1993). Released this month, you can find the collection here.
SSeepptteemmbbeerr 22002233

--- Page 9 of 13 ---

Assistant Professor of Feminist Studies Meagan Solomon published an article, “Beyond Sexual
Deviance: Elevating the Expansive Intimacies of Chicana Lesbian Life in Chicana Lesbians: The
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Girls Our Mothers Warned Us About” in the Journal of Lesbian Studies. In this article, she
expands popular readings of Chicana lesbianism focused on sexuality by tending more deeply
to the affective terrains of love and kinship represented in the 1991 anthology Chicana
Lesbians: The Girls Our Mothers Warned Us About,edited by Carla Trujillo. Countering the
(il)logics of white supremacy and Chicano nationalism, which reduce Chicana lesbians to
symbols of sexual deviance, she argues that Chicana Lesbiansembodies an expansive matrix of
intimacies that reconstruct the Chicana lesbian figure from a one-dimensional symbol of sexual
deviance to a multi-faceted figure who redefines what it means to love one’s people and
culture beyond colonial paradigms that privilege heterosexuality. The article can be read here.
Feminist Studies faculty and students presented their research at the national Mujeres Activas
en Letras y Cambio Social (MALCS) summer institute. This year’s conference, “40 years of
MALCS, Centuries of Activism: La Lucha Sigue for Racial, Reproductive and Decolonial Justice,”
took place on July 13-15, 2023, at UC Davis. Assistant Professor of Feminist Studies Meagan
Solomon presented “Reflections on Chicana/Latina Lesbian Feminism from This Bridge to the
Digital Dyke Age.” Associate Professor of Feminist Studies Brenda Sendejo, MALCS chair and
conference co-chair, presented on a roundtable titled “Chicana Movidas: Reflections on 50
years of Chicana Knowledge-Making” with her co-contributors to the Chicana Movidas
anthology. The following students presented papers under the guidance of Sendejo: Myla
Benally “Restoring the Meaning of Hózhó Within a Decolonial Framework: A Return to Balance
and Beauty” and sof varnis “Weaving as a Decolonial Practice: Reconciliation, Transformation,
and Spiritual Activism Among the Mampujan Weavers.”

--- Page 10 of 13 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
AApprriill 22002233
Associate Professor of Feminist Studies Brenda Sendejo was invited to participate as a faculty
mentor in the Crossing Latinidades Humanities Research Initiative funded by the Andrew W.
Mellon Foundation. Crossing Latinidades engages cross-institutional and cross-regional
comparative research, training doctoral students, and new scholarship in emerging areas of
inquiry about Latinos. The initiative serves as the anchor of the consortium of R1 Hispanic
Serving Institutions at the University of Illinois at Chicago. Sendejo is among a group of Latino
Studies faculty across the U.S. who will be paired with doctoral students through the
professional mentorship program.
Southwestern’s Feminist Studies Program was well represented at the annual meeting of WGS
South last weekend. Elena Welsh ’22 presented a paper entitled “Slow Pleasure/Slow Death:
Rituals of Survival in Queer Media” as part of a panel on LGBTQ Health. Visiting Assistant
Professor of Feminist Studies Jordan Johnson presented a paper entitled “Feminist Science
Studies and Multispecies Justice: Responding to Weedy Entanglements” as part of a panel on
Multispecies Feminisms.
DDeecceemmbbeerr 22002222
Associate Professor of Feminist Studies Brenda Sendejo and Assistant Professor of
Communication Studies Lamiyah Bahrainwala attended the El Mundo Zurdo conference for

--- Page 11 of 13 ---

the Society for the Study of Gloria Anzaldúa at the University of Texas at San Antonio from
November 4-5. The roundtable that Bahrainwala and Sendejo co-organized was titled
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
“Reflections on Radical Love, Care, and Consent: How Anzaldúa Informs Our Liberatory Praxis.”
Bahrainwala presented “Pandemic lessons: Consent as anti-Racism,” and Sendejo presented
“Movidas of Healing: The Spirit Work of Movement Era Chicanas.” The roundtable was well
attended by lead scholars in the field of Anzaldúan Thought.
Associate Professor of Feminist Studies Brenda Sendejo attended the National Women’s
Studies Association annual meeting in Minneapolis, Minnesota, from November 10-13. This
year’s conference theme was “Killing Rage: Resistance on the Other Side of Freedom.” Sendejo
presented a paper titled “The Spirit Work of bell hooks and Gloria Anzaldúa: Lessons on
Radical Love as Resistance,” which drew from her book manuscript in progress.
NNoovveemmbbeerr 22002222
Visiting Assistant Professor of Feminist Studies Jordan Johnson published the article “Staying
with the Trouble with Wilderness: Reworking Nature and Culture in the Plantationocene” in this
fall’s issue of The Journal of Posthumanism. The issue is available here.

--- Page 12 of 13 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
OOccttoobbeerr 22002222
Associate Professor of Feminst Studies Brenda Sendejo was invited to present her research as
part of Mexic-Arte Museum’s Chicano/a Art Movimiento y Más en Austen, Tejas 1960s to 1980s
exhibit and lecture series. Her paper was titled “The Chicana Movement in Austin: A Legacy of
Activism, Feminism, and Intergenerational Encuentros” and drew on themes from the exhibit
that intersect with Sendejo’s work on the Chicana/o movement and emergence of Chicana
feminist thought in Texas. The lecture series and exhibit were supported by a grant from the
National Endowment for the Humanities.
SSeepptteemmbbeerr 22002222
Associate Professor of Feminist Studies Brenda Sendejo was elected chair of Mujeres Activas
en Letras y Cambio Social (MALCS), a professional organization for self-identified Chicana,
Latina, Native American/indígena mujeres and gender nonconforming academics, students,
and activists. Sendejo cochaired the program committee for the MALCS 2022 Summer
Institute, held July 27–30 in Fort Collins, Colorado. She also organized and served as a
presenter on a roundtable about healing and re-membering as decolonial feminist praxis,
informed by the work of Gloria Anzaldúa.

--- Page 13 of 13 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
AApprriill 22002222
Visiting Assistant Professor of Feminist Studies Jordan Johnson ’11 will receive a stipend to
participate in the Bucknell Summer Institute this June.
JJaannuuaarryy 22002200
Mellon Postdoctoral Teaching Fellow in the Feminist Studies Program Sequoia Maner’s
coedited book, Revisiting the Elegy in the Black Lives Matter Era, was published by Routledge
Press. The title is available with a 20% discount from the publisher with the code HUM20 at
checkout.