--- Page 1 of 2 ---

Art Scholarshipsabout:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.southwestern.edu%2Fart%2...
southwestern.edu
Art Scholarships
~3 minutes
updated November 24, 2025
The Sarofim Scholarship in Studio Art is awarded to students
who demonstrate talent and a strong desire for growth in the field
of studio art. The application process includes a thorough review
of the applicant’s portfolio by our faculty. We highly encourage
prospective students to submit a portfolio through our online
process; once submitted, an individual virtual portfolio review will
be scheduled with you.
It’s important to note that portfolio reviews are not mandatory for
admission into the Studio Art major at Southwestern. However,
candidates who are awarded the Sarofim Scholarship may also be
eligible for additional financial assistance through other
Southwestern scholarships.
Sarofim Scholarships in Studio Art are for Studio Art majors only.
Prospective students interested in applying for a Sarofim
Scholarship and pursuing a major in Studio Art may do so through
the portfolio submission process, no later than February 10, 2026
(earlier submission is highly encouraged, particularly for
prospective majors; late submissions will be considered on a case-
by-case basis).
1 of 2 3/23/26, 4:10 PM

--- Page 2 of 2 ---

Art Scholarshipsabout:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.southwestern.edu%2Fart%2...
PORTFOLIO REVIEW REQUIREMENTS
Process for Studio Art Portfolio Review
1. Register for a portfolio review
2. Submit the portfolio review application
3. Complete your individually scheduled virtual portfolio review
SAVE THE DATE! Scholarship recipients will also be invited to our
Sarofim School of Fine Arts Scholarship Celebration Day on
March 1, where you will meet faculty and staff, tour studios and
fine arts facilities, attend workshops and lectures, connect with
current and prospective students, and learn more about the School
of Fine Arts. Participation in this even may also make you eligible
for additional scholarship funds.
Candidates who receive the Sarofim Scholarship in Studio Art may
also be eligible for additional assistance, including Southwestern
merit scholarships.
Contact
For any questions regarding portfolio reviews please send an
email to FineArtsAdmissions@southwestern.edu.
APPLY TO SOUTHWESTERN NOW
2 of 2 3/23/26, 4:10 PM