--- Page 1 of 2 ---

High-Impact Learning Experiencesabout:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.southwestern.edu%2Fart%2...
southwestern.edu
High-Impact Learning Experiences
2–3 minutes
Students may wish to develop an understanding of the diversity of
art and its global perspectives through other cultures via a number
of the University’s off-campus programs. Majors and minors in
Studio Art are highly encouraged to take part in at least one of the
University’s off-campus programs such as the fall semester in
London, the New York Arts Program, or many other opportunities
both domestic and abroad in the junior or senior year.
Study Abroad, in collaboration with IES, has created a
program in London, England specifically designed for
Southwestern students. The SU London Program is a fifteen-
week, sixteen-credit program for students who have attained at
least sophomore status at the start of the program.
Internships
Through association with the New York Arts Program,
Southwestern has regularly been able to place qualified students
in internships in the studios and offices of some of the most
prominent artists, architects, museums and galleries in New York.
1 of 2 3/23/26, 4:11 PM

--- Page 2 of 2 ---

High-Impact Learning Experiencesabout:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.southwestern.edu%2Fart%2...
The semester provides students a rare opportunity to serve in
apprenticeships and to gain additional experience in the world of
the established professional artist and/or arts institution.
Participants spend a semester sharing the experiences of New
York’s professional writers, performers, artists, and media groups
representing all fields of fine and commercial art.
Each student has a faculty advisor in New York who teaches an
Area Study course and works closely with both the student and the
student’s apprenticeship sponsor. Professional artists conduct
specially designed courses dealing with current issues in the arts.
Applicants should plan to visit New York City for interviews to
secure an apprenticeship. Students reside in the program’s five-
story dormitory/office town house in Chelsea, a residential area of
Manhattan.
2 of 2 3/23/26, 4:11 PM