--- Page 1 of 5 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
RELIGION
Courses
Below you will find a list of our current or recent offerings. See the course catalog for descriptions
and updated information.
19-204 Christian Traditions
A historical and thematic introduction to the Christian thought and practice. The survey begins
with the Jesus movement and continues through the current growth of Christianity in the
southern hemisphere, particularly sub-Saharan Africa and Latin America. Literary genres,
gender issues, political contexts, social movements and ethical dimensions are explored.
Contributes to International Studies. (H) (SJ) (PJ)
19-214 Native American Traditions
A broad survey of the role and function of religion and religious activity in Native American
communities. The course takes a broad, multi-disciplinary approach and focuses on religious
agency in Native American communities, both past and present. Contributes to Anthropology,
Race and Ethnicity Studies/Group-Theme Course, and Legal Studies Certificate. (H) (SJ) (PJ)
19-224 Jewish Traditions
A survey of the history, practices and belief of Judaism from the period of the formation of the
Hebrew Bible to the modern era. Contributes to International Studies. (H)
19-244 Islamic Traditions
A survey of the history, practices, and beliefs of Islam from Muhammad's era to the modern. It
investigates special themes such as mysticism, gender, and politics with attention to diverse
cultural contexts. Contributes to International Studies. (H)
19-274 Hindu Traditions

--- Page 2 of 5 ---

A historical and thematic introduction to the religious ideas and practices that developed
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
primarily on the Indian subcontinent. The course surveys central religious concepts and myths
in classical texts and popular traditions; the interaction with Buddhism, Jainism, Islam and
Sikhism; gender issues; and the relationship between religion and politics in South Asia.
Contributes to Feminist Studies and International Studies. (H) (SJ) (PJ)
19-284 Buddhist Traditions
A historical and thematic introduction to the central ideas and practices of Buddhism. The
course takes a multi-disciplinary approach to central religious concepts and myths in classical
texts and popular traditions, beginning with the historical Buddha and early developments in
India, Sri Lanka and Tibet. The course surveys the spread of Buddhism throughout Asia and to
other regions of the world, including North America. Ethics, gender issues, and social
movements are explored. Contributes to East Asian Studies and International Studies. (H) (SJ)
(PJ)
19-304 Selected Topics
Lectures and readings on subjects of special interest. May be repeated with change in topic.
19-324 Women, Goddesses and Religion
A cross-cultural study of the ways women's voices have been heard and silenced, of the ways
that their lives have been influential (as well as violently ended) and of the vital roles women
have played in various religious traditions. The course also investigates ways in which female
divinity has been conceptualized in various ancient and modern religious traditions. Rituals,
communities, visual symbols and sacred texts will provide the material for our explorations and
a feminist methodology will provide the lens for our gaze. Contributes to Anthropology,
Feminist Studies, and International Studies. (H) (WA) (SJ) (PJ)
19-334 Apocalypse and Dystopia
Why do we imagine the end of everything? Is it fear? Is it control? Is it wanting to let go of
control? What do religious traditions do with the idea of apocalypse (a vision, a revelation of
things to come)? This course examines those questions in both religious and secular settings
(while questioning those boundaries) asking why humans have imagined end times. It also
considers why these imaginings exist and how they function. In addition, it raises issues of
social justice and expresses hope in a different (and better) future as well as current

--- Page 3 of 5 ---

environmental fears of demise. Contributes to Environmental Studies and International
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Studies. (H) (SJ) (PJ)
19-344 Animals and Religion
A cross-cultural study of the ways other-than-human animals are included in and influence
several different religious traditions. The course also examines contemporary issues such as
factory farming and biomedical experimentation. Ecofeminist and environmental theories and
methods inform the course. Contributes to Animal Studies, Environmental Studies, Feminist
Studies, and International Studies. (H) (SJ) (PJ)
19-354 Gender & Sexuality in Native America
An examination of the ways in which gender and sexuality are understood and acted out in
Native American ritual and spiritual life, past and present. Focus will be placed on both
continuity and change, and the context through which these definitions make sense.
Contributes to Anthropology and Feminist Studies. (H)
19-364 Pilgrimage
A critical and comparative exploration of the religious, spiritual, social, cultural, environmental,
economic, and political dimensions of religious journey. The course will investigate several
theoretical approaches to pilgrimage that foreground issues such as the relation between place
and sacred space; the distinction between physical and metaphorical journeys; pilgrims'
motivations and goals; the relationship between religious journeying and ordinary life; how
cultural values shape and are shaped by pilgrimages; the environmental impacts of pilgrimage;
and the relationship between pilgrimage and tourism. Students will apply these theoretical
approaches by focusing on particular religious journeys in several traditions. Contributes to
Anthropology, Environmental Studies, and International Studies. (H)
19-374 Sacred Space and the Environment Religion
This course looks at the ways in which groups of peoples (the focus will be primarily on Native
Americans) have shaped their spiritual identities and communities around important places
within the landscape, defining themselves against these places in nature and being defined by
them at the same time. Students will try to understand what it means to give spiritual value to
natural places, and the varieties of ways in which religious activities (and/or environmental

--- Page 4 of 5 ---

philosophies) are focused on such places. Contributes to Environmental Studies, and Race and
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Ethnicity Studies/Allied Course. (H)
19-384 Rastas, Saints and Virgins
This course looks at the study of ethnic religious traditions in the United States - religions
associated with specific ethnic groups. Students will examine religious systems such as
Santeria, Rastafarians and the Cult of the Virgin of Guadalupe, among others. The goal of the
course is not only to understand the religions themselves, but also to see how to go about
studying religious systems which are not founded in texts and which differ on a deep
philosophical level from many mainstream religious systems. Contributes to Anthropology,
International Studies, and Race and Ethnicity Studies/Group-Theme Course. (H) (SJ) (PJ)
19-394 Indigenous Myth and Narrative
An examination of oral and written narratives in Native American cultures and communities
(past and present) to show how such narratives serve as ways of encoding culture and identity,
notions about world and self, and serve as a powerful means of passing those ideas on
generationally. Students will have the opportunity to read collections of narratives, listen to
narratives being told via audio recordings, as well as examine more contemporary methods of
narrative transmission, including music, poetry and social media. Contributes to Race and
Ethnicity Studies/Group-Theme Course. (H)
19-404 Religion and Animation
Animation is everywhere, and often we view it for its humor, wit, and its biting social
commentary. But what if we can actually LEARN something from it as well? In obvious, and
sometimes not so obvious ways, animation - comics, graphic novels, cartoons and films - often
tackles important subjects. This course looks at multiple types of animation to see how they
reflect and interpret ideas/ideologies about religion/s. What can the Avengers, Ned Flanders,
Hank Hill, Davey & Goliath, Disney princesses or the kids from South Park show us about
religion and the world we live in today? Our goal is to find out! (H)
19-414 The Body in Religion
A feminist, cross-cultural examination of the embodied human self in various religious
traditions. The course will explore how the body is conceptualized, including sexuality and
gender; moral proscriptions regarding the body and what they reveal about religion and

--- Page 5 of 5 ---

culture; self-cultivation techniques; and the relationship between embodiment and salvation.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Written texts and visual arts will be the media of exploration. Contributes to Feminist Studies
and International Studies (H)
19-424 Indigenous TV and Film
This course looks at the ways in which indigenous peoples from North America have been
portrayed in the mainstream media for the sake of entertainment, both past and present. We
will try to understand why this type of representation is important, and how it can be used to
create notions of identity, both internally and externally. Representation is a critical way in
which stereotypes and ideologies can be passed to an audience, obviously and not so
obviously, and we will try to understand both. (H)
19-534 Muslims in Europe
See History 16-514. (H)
19-714 Topics in Religion
A critical investigation of an important subject or issue in religion: religion and violence,
religion and media, religious authority, religion and politics, etc. May be comparative or may
focus on one tradition. This course may be repeated when topic varies. Topics courses that
rotate, not necessarily every two years: Ball Games, Baskets, and Living Skies; A Novel
Approach to American Religious History; Yoga; Religion and Politics; Religion and Ecology. (H)
19-814 Doing Religion
A critical exploration of some of the ways that people engage with religious concepts, symbols,
stories, and practices, along with an exploration of some of the theories and methods used in
contemporary secular studies of religion. Reviews various scholars who analyze the
phenomenon of religion apart from theology through the use of history, literary studies,
feminist studies, psychology, sociology, anthropology, postcolonial, environmental, and
comparative studies. The course requires a significant amount of writing and exercises in the
application of various methodological approaches, thus it is research intensive as well. This
class is required for Religion majors and minors but is open to all students. (WA) (Spring)
19-894 Religion Capstone
This research seminar is intended for majors in religion but is open to other students with the
permission of the instructor. (WA) (Fall)