--- Page 1 of 3 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
SOCIOLOGY & ANTHROPOLOGY
Courses
ANTHROPOLOGY SOCIOLOGY
Our Sociology courses focus on topics germane to our current global society and issues of
race/class/gender across the curriculum. Below you will find a list of our current or recent
offerings. See the course catalog for descriptions and updated information.
34-114 Introduction to Sociology
This course serves as an introduction to the discipline of sociology that uses
sociological theories, empirical research, and the sociological imagination to explore
features of contemporary American life. Particular attention will be paid to the ways in
which characteristics such as race, class, and gender are socially constructed in the
American context and influence people's worldviews and life chances. Contributes to
Anthropology and Spanish for Healthcare Professions Certificate. (Each semester)
(ScS) (SJ) (PJ)
34-214 Christianity & Identity in U.S. Society
This course examines how Christianity intersects with various structures in the United
States and how history informs this relationship. Students will explore how sociologists
examine this phenomenon along the axes of gender, sexuality, race, and class.
Contributes to Feminist Studies, and Race and Ethnicity Studies/Group-Theme
Course. Prerequisite: Sociology 34-114. (ScS)
34-234 Sociology of Gender
This course examines the social construction of gender. Students will engage with
theory, empirical findings, current social issues, and lived experience to interrogate

--- Page 2 of 3 ---

the complexities of feminism and the gender binary. Particular attention is paid to
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
intersectionality and the ways that gender, race, and class influence power in the
public and private spheres. Contemporary issues related to patriarchy, masculinity,
and misogyny will be covered. Contributes to Feminist Studies, Race and Ethnicity
Studies/Allied Course, and Spanish for Healthcare Professions Certificate.
Prerequisite: Sociology 34-114 or Feminist Studies 04-104. (ScS) (SJ) (PJ)
34-264 Racial and Ethnic Perspectives
This course examines how race and ethnicity are experienced, maintained, and
challenged in the United States at the individual, interactional, and institutional levels.
Time will also be devoted to the ways that American citizenship as well as life chances
are influenced by ethnic and racial group membership. Contributes to Feminist
Studies, Race and Ethnicity Studies/Concepts Course, Legal Studies Certificate, and
Spanish for Healthcare Professions Certificate. Prerequisite: Sociology 34-114. (ScS)
(SJ) (PJ)
34-284 Sociology of the Family
This course examines the inequality of U.S. families. Special attention is paid to how
gender, race, social class, and sexuality inform experiences within diverse family
forms. Students will trace the demographic history of families, explore contemporary
constellations (divorce, child custody, single parenting, and stepparents), and
contemplate on the future direction of families. Contributes to Feminist Studies, Race
and Ethnicity Studies/Allied Course, Legal Studies Certificate, and Spanish for
Healthcare Professions Certificate. Prerequisite: Sociology 34-114. (ScS)
34-314 Research Methods
This course acquaints majors and minors in sociology with the procedures for
analyzing quantitative data. Students will learn how to use SPSS or Stata to analyze an
existing dataset. They will also write a quantitative paper based on their empirical
findings. Prerequisite: Sociology 34-114, Mathematics 52-114 and sociology minor or
major. (Every Fall) (WA) (ScS)
34-344 Sociological Theory

--- Page 3 of 3 ---

Contributions made to sociological theory beginning in the mid-19th century to the
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
present. This course will survey select classical sociological theorists and
contemporary sociological theorists with an emphasis on how their theories can be
applied to understanding human behavior through a sociological lens. This course is
offered every spring. Prerequisites: Sociology 34-114 and sociology minor or major.
(Every Spring) (ScS)
34-964 Sociology Capstone Seminar
Students will conduct a qualitative or mixed methods sociological research project.
They will collect and analyze data, apply sociological literature to their findings,
develop a research paper, and present their findings to the campus community.
Majors should take this class in the fall of their senior year. Prerequisites: Sociology
34-314, 34-344 and sociology major. (Every Fall) (WA) (ScS)
GEORGETOWN, TEXAS
512.863.6511
CONTACT