--- Page 1 of 2 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
FOR CURRENT STUDENTS
Graduate School
The Graduate School Admission Process
Applying to graduate school can be a lengthy and involved process, so we recommend that students
begin the process as soon as they know they are interested. Applications for PhD programs are
typically due in December or January. Some graduate programs have two separate deadlines (one
for admissions and one for financial aid) and applicants are encouraged to submit everything before
the earlier deadline.
Because admission to graduate programs is extremely competitive, we suggest that students send
applications to at least five schools. We encourage students to use the rankings below to choose
the schools to which they will apply. Students should use the internet to begin learning about
graduate schools’ strengths and specialties and to request paper applications or access to on-line
applications.
Once the student has chosen the schools to which they will apply, they should then begin the
process of putting together their application. Typically, graduate school applications require the
following
Transcripts
GRE scores
Letters of recommendation (usually three)
Personal statement or Statement of purpose
Application fees
Writing sample
Financial aid application

--- Page 2 of 2 ---

Some applicants also choose to send additional materials, such as a CV (curriculum vita). While
manMy eansupects Soefa trhceh graduate school application are straightforward, otAhpeprsly reqVuisiirte cMaarjeofrus l& Minors
thought. Students are encouraged to discuss their interest in graduate school and their applications
with professors in the department.
Rankings of Top Graduate Programs in Anthropology and Sociology
ANTHROPOLOGY
Anthropology research-doctoral programs were evaluated by the National Research Council in
1993. The methodology is described in “Rankings of Research-Doctorate Programs in 41
Disciplines at 274 Institutions,” Chronicle of Higher Education 42: A21-A30, September 25, 1995.
The ranking is reprinted in Lynn C. Hattendorf Westney (Ed.), Educational Rankings Annual: 2003,
Detroit: Thomas Gale, 2003.
01. University of Michigan – Ann Arbor
02. University of Chicago
03. University of California – Berkeley
04. Harvard University
05. University of Arizona
06. University of Pennsylvania
07. Stanford University
08. Yale University —. UCLA —. University of California – San Diego
09. University of Florida
10. University of Texas – Austin
11. New York University
12. University of Illinois – Champaign-Urbana
13. University of California – Davis
SOCIOLOGY
For rankings of the top 100 Graduate Programs in Sociology from US News and World Report (the
most recent rankings are from 2024), click here .