--- Page 1 of 35 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
SOCIOLOGY & ANTHROPOLOGY
Notable Faculty & Student Achievements
March 2026
Several sociology faculty members and students attended the Eastern Sociological Society annual
meeting in Washington, D.C. from March 5-8. Three sociology majors presented their capstone
research: Rylan Hastings ’26 presented “One Nation, Many Teams: Americans’ Attitudes About
Sport as a Unifier or Divider in Society,” Aris Morgan ’26 presented “The Perception of the West
Under Threat: American Attitudes on China,” and Greta Nelson ’26 presented “They Don’t Belong
Here: Understanding American Opposition to Undocumented Immigration.” Faculty and students
also presented on their collaborative research projects: Assistant Professor of Sociology Amanda
Hernandez, Morgan, and Nelson presented their 2025 SURF project “Stay Off Our TERF:
Predictors of Anti-Trans Feminists Opposition to Trans Girls in K-12 Sports,” and Professor of
Sociology Maria Lowe and Claire Adams ’27 presented “Suspicious Person Posts and Racial
Profiling Anxiety in Neighborhoods.” In addition, Hernandez presented work from ongoing
research, “But Is It Feminist? The Highlights, Challenges, and Opportunities of Creating a
Sociological and Transdisciplinary Podcast.”
Assistant Professor of Anthropology Naomi Reed and Head of Distinctive Collections and
Archives Megan Firestone were both interviewed and featured in the documentary “Segregation
on Trial: Integrating Georgetown Schools,” filmed and produced by City of Georgetown
Communications Manager Keith Hutchinson. The film debuted and was screened at the
Georgetown Public Library on February 26, where Naomi and Megan both sat on a panel to

--- Page 2 of 35 ---

discuss the film’s creation and importance with the larger Georgetown community. The film can
be viewed here. The panel discussion is available here.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
February 2026
Professor of Anthropology Melissa Johnson presented “Revising the Early Social History of Belize,
1730-1820” at the Third International Caribbean Studies Forum at the University of Belize,
Belmopan, on February 18. The talk can be viewed here.
Professor of Sociology Maria Lowe has been awarded this year’s Distinguished Contribution to
Teaching Award by the Southern Sociological Society in recognition of outstanding achievements.
Dr. Lowe will be honored during the Society’s Presidential Honors and Convocation Plenary, held
at their annual meeting in Jacksonville, FL in April.
December 2025

--- Page 3 of 35 ---

Professor of Sociology Maria Lowe, along with sociology graduates ThuyMi Phung ’23 and
Katherine (Kat) Holcomb ’22, have published a mixed methods paper titled “White Grievance as
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
a Predictor of American Attitudes Toward Critical Race Theory” in the journal Sociological Forum.
This article is based on a faculty-student collaborative research project and can be accessed here.
November 2025
Professor of Anthropology Melissa Johnson organized a double panel for the American
Anthropological Association in New Orleans on November 22, along with Dr. Patrick Gallagher of
the University of Texas–San Antonio. The sessions were titled “Predatory Politics: The Wily Animal-
Human Relationships of Hunting and Fishing” Part 1–Sea and Part 2–Land. Dr. Johnson presented
“Tigah Camp: Unruly Multispecies assemblages, Race and Gender in a Belizean Trophy Jaguar
Hunting Camp” in Part 2–Land.
Assistant Professor of Anthropology Naomi Reed presented her paper “A Healing African
Diasporic Deconstruction of Ashkenormativity” at the American Anthropology Association
Conference in New Orleans on November 20. The presentation was on the panel she also chaired,
titled “Canonical Hauntings of the Body: On Harm and Healing—Knowledge Production and the
Politics of Belonging.” Dr. Reed’s paper explores how the dismissal of whiteness by white
presenting Ashkenazi Jewish Americans harms Jews of color and erases their experiences within
the Jewish Diaspora. Through a critical inversion of the haunting paternalistic relationship
between Jewish anthropologists and Blackness, she asks what Jewish Americans can learn from
African Diaspora scholarship. She suggests that Jewish identity should be reconceptualized
through African Diasporic notions of identity and race as a means to deconstruct
Ashkenormativity and to fuel a healing critical recognition of Jewish diversity. Anthropology

--- Page 4 of 35 ---

graduate Zacharia Arifi ’24 presented a paper on this same panel, titled “Bourdieu Awal and Me:
Unraveling a Canon of Franco-Kabyle Ethnolography,” where they mediate the history of French
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
ethnography with ethnographic fieldwork to posit how a legacy of disciplinal practice haunts
ethnic identification among the French Kabyle. Particularly, they define how its corpus has
codified and perpetuated hegemonic knowledge of belonging that supplant the diaspora’s
autonomy in self-conceptualization. They consider, then, how its communities negotiate what it
means to be Kabyle through living encounters with discursive expression. Professor of
Anthropology Melissa Johnson served as the discussant for this panel. The conference program
can be found here.
Assistant Professor of Sociology Amanda Hernandez presented a virtual book talk to women and
gender studies students at California State University, Northridge on November 18. The focus of
her talk was on feminist interview methodologies and the chapter “Wife – Mother – Girl Boss”
from her 2024 book Intersectional Identities of Christian Women in the United States: Faith, Race,
and Feminism.
Assistant Professor of Sociology Adriana Ponce was selected to participate in “Beyond Colonial
Constraints: Cuir Feminist Praxis as Rupture and Healing across the Archipelago” at the NWSA
annual conference in San Juan, Puerto Rico from November 12–16. The pre-conference
opportunity was rooted in Boriken archipelago feminism to explore how gender and sexual
minorities disrupt coloniality and embrace joy.

--- Page 5 of 35 ---

Professor of Anthropology Melissa Johnson and her Summer 2025 SURF students presented
their findings at the 13th Race, Ethnicity and Place conference in Albuquerque, NM from
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
November 5–7. Their panel was titled “Race, Gender, Slavery and Freedom in Everyday Life on the
British coast of Central America, 1750-1830.” Dr. Johnson and three students presented their
papers: anthropology and feminist studies double major Dina Gaxiola ’28 presented “The Case of
Jane Trapp: Race, Gender, Slavery and Freedom in Early British Central America,” psychology and
sociology double major Sophia Hernandez ’28 presented “From Enslavement to Influence;
Gendered Agency, Racial Boundaries, and the Story of Ariadne Broaster,” Dr. Johnson presented
“Living across lines of freedom in the early history of Belize: The origins of the Bonner family,” and
biology and environmental studies double major Shae Whitney ’28 presented “Maria Middleton
– Slave, Criminal, Transported Convict: Understanding Gender, Race and Freedom across the
British Colonial World.” The students may have been the only undergraduates presenting papers
at this conference. The papers were well received, with one audience member sharing that this
was the most interesting panel they had attended.
Assistant Professor of Sociology Adriana Ponce published her critical literature review on U.S.
stepfamilies in the Journal of Sociology Compass. The article, “A Literature Review of U.S.
Stepfamilies: Directions Toward an Intersectional, Feminist Understanding of Lived Experiences
Centered on Social Justice Praxis,” is part of a special issue centering on intersectionality, titled
“Beyond Boundaries: Reviewing the Multifaceted Dimensions of Intersectionality,” and identifies a
glaring gap and directions for new knowledge creation centered on community engagement. The
article can be read here.
Assistant Professor of Sociology Amanda Hernandez served as an invited panelist on an “Author
Meets Critics” panel at the Sociology for the Scientific Study of Religion annual meeting in
Minneapolis on October 31. The book, “Faith & The Fragility of Justice: Responses to Gender-
Based Violence in South Africa,” by Meredith Whitnah is an exploration of non-governmental
organization responses to gender-based violence in post-apartheid South Africa. Amanda’s

--- Page 6 of 35 ---

comments focused on the author’s call to use intersectional frameworks in the sociological study
of religion and the use of creative and innovative methodologies to do this work.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Professor of Anthropology Melissa Johnson participated in the Kulcha 2025 symposium, hosted
by the Heritage Education Network Belize, from October 29–31. She presented “Early Belizean
Social History: The case of the Crawford family” on October 29. The presentation can be accessed
here at 4:54 (4 hours, 54 minutes); the live Q and A starts about 30 minutes later.
October 2025
Professor of Anthropology Melissa Johnson led a workshop on the “Early Social History of the
Lower Belize River Valley” for undergraduate students at the University of Belize (UB) from
October 17–18. Eight students and two professors from UB spent Friday working with archival
documents and information that Dr. Johnson has collected to start to tell the story of a family of
color who lived in British Central America starting in the mid 1700s. The president of the
university and two deans joined the workshop for Dr. Johnson’s presentation. The following day,
Dr. Johnson organized a field trip for the group to Belizean Creole villages in the lower Belize
River Valley, where the group learned about history and culture first hand from elders of the
communities. Dr. Johnson worked closely with Lecturer in History and Coordinator of the
Intercultural Indigenous Language Institute Delmer Tzib and Assistant Professor of English
Christopher De Shield to develop the workshop. The activities were all sponsored by funding from
the Mellon Foundation’s Grant to SU, “Deepening the Heart of Texas: Public-Engaged Humanities
for Social Justice.”

--- Page 7 of 35 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Assistant Professor of Anthropology Naomi Reed presented a talk, titled “Oral History as
Liberation,” at the Universities Studying Slavery Consortium’s Fall Conference, “Second Foundings:
Universities, Slavery, and Struggles for Justice in Texas and Beyond,” at Rice University in Houston
on Saturday, October 11. She discussed theRacial History Project’s oral
history collection and the critical methodology used to gather, preserve, and exhibit stories of
alumni of color. Her talk featured an excerpt of the oral history of Eva Mendiola ’75 that was
recorded by SCOPE 2022 student Kalista Esquivel ’26 as well as a clip of the forthcoming
documentary that she created with Esquivel and SURF 2025 student Mia Santoscoy ’26 about
Mendiola’s journey to founding women’s sports at SU. The conference program can be found
here.
August 2025
Sociology and feminist studies graduate Emily Dimiceli ’25 received an honorable mention for
the prestigious Joe Feagin Undergraduate Paper Award for her fall 2025 sociology capstone
project. This national award, presented by the Sociology of Racial and Ethnic Minorities section of
the American Sociological Association (ASA), recognizes outstanding undergraduate scholarship.
Emily accepted the honor at this year’s ASA meeting in Chicago. In its commendation, the award
committee described Emily’s paper as “ambitious original research… well-grounded in racial
theory, including conceptualizations of colorblind racism and historical racism.”

--- Page 8 of 35 ---

Assistant Professor of Sociology Amanda Hernandez and environmental studies graduate Sarah
Ventimiglia ’24 traveled to Chicago to present at the Association for the Sociology of Religion
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Annual Meeting. Sarah presented their faculty/student collaborative research “Hashtag
ChristianGirl: The White Commodified Self on TikTok.” Amanda’s 2024 book, Intersectional
Identities of Christian Women in the U.S.: Faith, Race, and Feminism, was the subject of an “Author
Meets Critic” book panel.
July 2025
Assistant Professor of Sociology Amanda Hernandez was interviewed on the “Classical Ideas”
podcast about her 2024 book Intersectional Identities of Christian Women in the United States:
Faith, Race, and Feminism. The episode can be streamed here. She also soft launched her
forthcoming podcast “But Is It Feminist?,” which can be heard here.
May 2025
Sociology and feminist studies double major and race and ethnicity studies minor Emily
Dimiceli ’25 has been accepted into the 2025 American Sociological Association’s (ASA) Honors
Program. As a part of the program, she will present her capstone research paper, titled “‘Obama
was voted president by white people’: Predictors of Americans’ Perceptions of Racism,” at this
year’s ASA annual meeting in Chicago, IL.

--- Page 9 of 35 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
April 2025
Sociology students and faculty members attended the Southern Sociological Society annual
meeting in Charlotte, NC from April 9-12. Five sociology seniors presented their capstone
research: Catherine Angell presented “Presidency or Penitentiary: Exploring Americans’ Attitudes
Towards Felons’ Right to Vote;” Isabella Bahamon presented “Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of
Choice: Predicting Americans’ Attitudes Towards Abortion Rights,” which won the 2025 Odum
Award for Best Undergraduate Paper; Emily Dimiceli presented “‘Obama was voted president by
white people’: Predictors of Americans’ Perceptions of Racism;” Mary Kate McAdams presented
“‘It seems like the system has a few favorites’: Factors that Affect American Attitudes about Racial
and Economic Bias in the Criminal Justice System;” and Chelsey Rocha presented “‘DEI is just
racism against white people’: Americans Attitudes About Anti-DEI Bills in Higher Education.” In
addition, faculty and students presented on their collaborative research projects. Assistant
Professor of Sociology Amanda Hernandez and environmental studies major Sarah
Ventimiglia ’25 presented their co-authored study titled, “Hashtag Blessed: Performances of
White Femininity and Consumption on TikTok.” Professor of Sociology Maria Lowe presented her
collaborative study (with co-authors Dr. Reginald Byron of the University of Denver, Brigit
Reese ’24, and Carson Maxfield ’24) titled, “Residents of Color in non-Predominantly White
Neighborhoods: Are They More Likely to Worry about Racialized Surveillance Than White
Residents?”
Assistant Professor of Sociology Adriana Ponce and sociology major Chelsey Rocha ’25
presented “Intersectionality, Accessibility, and Fraudulent Behavior: Feminist, Qualitative
Methodology and Emerging Virtual Recruitment” at the Southern Sociological Society (SSS)
Annual Conference in Charlotte, NC. Dr. Ponce and Chelsey’s presentation wrestled with
accessible recruitment practices for diverse stepfamilies while protecting the data from interested
respondents misrepresenting their qualifications for the study.

--- Page 10 of 35 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Assistant Professor of Anthropology Naomi Reed organized and supported the submission,
reception, and presentation of the panel “Salons, Skateboarding, and Tabletop Gaming: Stories of
‘Alternative’ Intersectional Gender Expression in Recreational Communities,” presented on April 4
at the 2025 Southwestern Anthropology Association Conference in Pomona, CA. During this
panel, anthropology and classics double major Marley Sensenderfer ’25 chaired the session and
presented the paper talk “Roll for Stereotypes: D&D and Gender Performativity Tabletop role-
playing games,” anthropology major Emma French ’25 presented the paper talk “Gender and
Skateboarding Culture,” and anthropology and environmental studies double major Rose
Reed ’25 presented the paper talk “White Beauty Standards in a Hair and Nail Salon.” This panel
was a collaboration of three student anthropology capstone research projects that deconstruct
intersectional manifestations of gender in public space via insider (or native) ethnographic
analysis. More information on the session and the conference can be found here.
Professor of Anthropology Melissa Johnson’s article “Tigah camp: unruly multispecies
assemblages, race and gender in a Belizean trophy jaguar hunting camp” has just been published
in the journal Latin American and Caribbean Ethnic Studies. It can be read here.

--- Page 11 of 35 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
March 2025
Professor of Sociology Maria Lowe, sociology and business graduate ThuyMi Phung ’23, and
sociology and art history graduate Katherine Holcomb ’23 presented their co-authored paper
titled “The Interaction of Race and Racial Grievance: Predictors of American Attitudes about
Critical Race Theory” at the Eastern Sociological Society annual meeting in Boston from March 6-
9.
Assistant Professor of Sociology Amanda Hernandez was selected to be in the Sacred Writes
Spring 2025 Carpenter Cohort. Sacred Writes provides support, resources, and networks for
scholars of religion committed to translating the significance of their research to a broader
audience. This spring cohort focuses on training scholars of religion, gender, and sexuality on
translating their work into public scholarship. More about the program and her cohort can be
found here.
Isabella Bahamon ’25 was selected for the Southern Sociological Society’s 2025 Howard Odum
Award for Best Undergraduate Paper for her capstone project titled, “Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit
of Choice: American Attitudes about Abortion Rights in the United States.” Professor of
Sociology Maria Lowe supervised Isabella’s project during this year’s sociology capstone class.

--- Page 12 of 35 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
February 2025
Assistant Professors of Sociology Adriana Ponce and Amanda Hernandez, Assistant Professor of
Political Science Alexander Goodwin, Assistant Professor of History Bryan Kauma, and Assistant
Professor of English Sonia Del Hierro published “Teaching with Color: Thematic Hires and the
Politics of Teaching in Texas,” in the journal Sociology of Race and Ethnicity. This article joins a
growing conversation in the humanities and humanistic social sciences on ways faculty of color
shoulder the burden of thinking about our shared futures as racialized, intersectional, and
collaborative. You can find the article here.
January 2025
Sociology and business alumna ThuyMi Phung ’23 has published an article with Professor of
Sociology Maria Lowe titled “The Armed Home and Support for Trump: Predictors of Americans’
Attitudes Toward Gun Violence” in the Journal of Integrated Social Sciences. This work represents
ThuyMi’s first peer-reviewed publication and stems from her Fall 2022 capstone project. The
article can be found here. ThuyMi continues her research on attitudes about gun violence at the
University of Washington where she is completing her Master’s in Public Health.

--- Page 13 of 35 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
December 2024
Assistant Professor of Anthropology Naomi Reed organized a panel titled “Blackness and
Whiteness in the Americas: Race Across Space and Time” for the American Anthropological
Association’s 2024 annual meeting in Tampa, FL on November 21. Professor of
Anthropology Melissa Johnson served as the chair for the panel. During this session, Dr. Reed
presented the paper “Black Surrogacy and the Sugar Land 95: How White Officials in Sugar Land,
Texas use Black Subjectivity to Fabricate a Social Justice Image,” Dr. Johnson presented the paper
“Emerging Racial Categories and their Socio-ecological Context on the British Coast of Central
America in the Late 1700s,” and undergraduate honors anthropology student Constanza
Cameron ’24 presented the paper “Chilean Whiteness: Affective Dispositions Regarding Race and
Class.” Alumnus Zacharia Arifi ’24 presented the poster presentation “1760 Hors Place: Discursive
Identity Formation of the Franco-Kabyle Diaspora and the PostKabyle” as well. Abstracts of the
panel, the papers, and the poster can be found here.
November 2024
Assistant Professor of Sociology Adriana Ponce and sociology major Chelsey Rocha ’25
presented “Stepparents in America: Unearthing Distinct Practices and Processes” at the National
Women’s Studies Association (NWSA) annual conference in Detroit, MI. Dr. Ponce and Chelsey’s
presentation highlighted their community engaged project’s current progress and developments.

--- Page 14 of 35 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
October 2024
Assistant Professor of Sociology Amanda Hernandez presented preliminary insights from her
project, “Teaching Christianity and Whiteness in Turbulent Times,” at the Society for the Scientific
Study of Religion (SSSR) conference in Pittsburgh from October 17–20.
Professor of Anthropology Melissa Johnson was an invited participant in the Third Coast Central
America Collaborative at Texas Christian University from October 17-18, where she presented “The
Flowers’ Story: Emerging Racial Categories and their Socio-ecological context on the British Coast
of Central America in the late 1700s.”
Assistant Professor of Sociology Amanda Hernandez published her first monograph,
“Intersectional Identities of Christian Women in the United States: Faith, Race, and Feminism”
(2024, Lexington Books). Based in content analysis, interviews, and survey data, Hernandez
problematizes the view that Christianity and feminism are contradictory identities. More
information is available here.

--- Page 15 of 35 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
August 2024
Assistant Professor of Sociology Amanda Hernandez served as an invited panelist for “Where
There Is Oppression: Doing Sociology in Challenging Times and Places,” at the American
Sociological Association Annual Meeting in Montreal.
Assistant Professor of Sociology Amanda Hernandez, Assistant Professor of Sociology Adriana
Ponce, Assistant Professor of Political Science Alexander Goodwin, Assistant Professor of
History Bryan Kauma, and Assistant Professor of English Sonia Del Hierro had their abstract
“Teaching With Color: Thematic Hires and the Politics of Teaching in Texas” accepted as a special
feature for the 10 Year Reflection Special Issue on pedagogy and hope in the Journal for the
Sociology of Race & Ethnicity. The article will be both a pedagogical reflection on hope in the
classroom and on thematic hires. The issue will be available in early 2025.
July 2024
Professor of Anthropology Melissa Johnson presented “Lucy’s Story: The Surprising Tale of an
Enslaved Black Woman in British Central America in the 1770s” as the inaugural webinar for the
Government of Belize’s Institute of Social and Cultural Research-National Institute of Culture and
History Research Lab Series 2.0 on July 24. It was well attended and is posted on the ISCR-NICH
YouTube channel, available here.

--- Page 16 of 35 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Assistant Professor of Sociology Amanda Hernandez published a feature article in the Summer
edition of the magazine Conscience, titled “Are There Christian Feminists? How White Supremacy
Impacts Our Assumptions About Identity.” In the article, Hernandez highlights the role that white
supremacy plays in the common assumption that feminism and faith are at odds.
May 2024
Professor of Anthropology Melissa Johnson has just published “Lucy’s Story: The Surprising Tale
of an Enslaved Black Woman in British Central America in the 1770s” in Anthropology Now. The
article can be read here.
April 2024
Assistant Professor of Anthropology Naomi Reed (panel organizer) and Professor of
Anthropology Melissa Johnson (panel chair), along with two SCOPE undergraduate
students, Rose Reed ’25 and Kalista Esquivel ’26, presented their panel “Unsilencing the Past:
How Oral Histories Give Voice to Black and Latinx Students at” on April
18 at the Southwestern Social Science Association Conference in New Orleans, LA. Dr. Johnson
discussed the foundational history of the University and the founding of The SU Racial History

--- Page 17 of 35 ---

Project. Dr. Reed discussed the liberatory potential of oral histories and why this particular
method is key to unsilencing the voices of the oppressed at a predominantly white institution.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Rose presented the oral history of Lynette Philips, a Black woman who attendedbetween 1980-1984, played basketball for the university, and was very active on
campus. Kalista presented the oral history of Eva Mendiola, a Mexican-American woman who
attendedfrom 1972-1975 and founded the volleyball team, which was
the first women’s sports team on campus. Future plans include submitting these student papers
to a special issue of an oral history journal. The conference program can be viewed here.
Sociology major Elena Clark ’24 was selected as the first place winner in the prestigious Alpha
Kappa Delta national undergraduate paper competition for her capstone project titled “‘Freedom
of the streets’ or ‘Barriers to success?’ Factors that Predict Attitudes About Homelessness In The
United States.” Elena competed against sociology majors from R1s, liberal arts universities, and
other schools across the country. Her award comes with a cash prize and travel money to the
August 2024 American Sociological Association (ASA) meeting in Montreal, Quebec, where she
will participate in the ASA Honors Program, present her paper, and receive her award at the AKD
Awards Ceremony. Professor of Sociology Maria Lowe served as Elena’s faculty mentor for this
project.
Professor of Sociology Maria Lowe and four sociology seniors attended the Southern
Sociological Society annual meeting in New Orleans, LA from April 3-6. Each student also
presented their capstone research. Elena Clark ’24 presented her paper titled, “‘Freedom of the
streets’ or ‘Barriers to success?’ Factors that Predict Attitudes About Homelessness In The United
States.” Liana Collins ’24 presented her paper titled, “Americans’ Attitudes About Second
Language Learning in the U.S.” Carson Maxfield ’24 presented his paper titled, “Who is More
Likely to Support Conspiracy Theories? Examining the Connections between Education, Gender,
and Beliefs in Conspiracy Theory.” Brigit Reese ’24 presented her paper titled, “Hope, Nope, or
Cope: Americans’ Perceptions about Climate Change in the 2020s.” In addition, Lowe, Reese, and

--- Page 18 of 35 ---

Maxfield presented the preliminary findings from their faculty-student collaborative project titled,
“Racialized Fears in White Spaces: The Frequency with Which Residents Worry About Being
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Perceived As Suspicious in Their Neighborhood.”
Professor of Anthropology Melissa Johnson presented the paper “The Crawford Family Line:
Subaltern Socio-Ecological Formations on the British Coast of Central America in the 1700s” at the
Political Ecology Society/Society for Applied Anthropology 84th Annual Meeting on March 27 in
Santa Fe, NM.
Assistant Professor of Anthropology Naomi Reed and investigative journalist Brittney Martin
received a 2024 Gracie Award for Best Investigative Feature [Radio - Nationally Syndicated Non-
Commercial] for their podcast series “Sugar Land.” The Gracie Awards celebrate women in media.
More info can be found here.
February 2024
Assistant Professor of Anthropology Naomi Reed was invited to present at the Yale Center for the
Study of Race, Indigeneity, and Transnational Migration Historical Studies of Texas Symposium on
February 9th and 10th in Austin, Texas. On the roundtable “Community-Based Scholarship,” she

--- Page 19 of 35 ---

explored who gets to be “community” when decisions are being made about forgotten Black
cemeteries such as The Bullhead Camp Cemetery (the current resting place of the Sugar Land 95).
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
She discussed how the Texas Antiquities Code requires community input when remains are
discovered and how the broader Black descendant community of the 95 has been ignored, thus
resulting in subpar memorialization efforts by the local school district that owns the land the
bodies are buried on.
Professor of Anthropology Melissa Johnson’s work on Belize was featured in the January 19,
202, JSTOR Daily.
Assistant Professor of Sociology Adriana Ponce participated in the Sociologist for Women in
Society (SWS) 2024 winter meeting in Santa Ana Pueblo, New Mexico, from January 25 to 28. She
presented her project, “The Intersectional Landscape of Stepparents in the U.S.: What’s Next?,”
which advocates for an intersectional, feminist approach to stepparenting research, in preparation
for a Faculty-Student Project (FSP).
December 2023

--- Page 20 of 35 ---

Assistant Professor of Anthropology Naomi Reed presented her poster presentation, “From
Convicts to Ancestors: Resurrecting the Humanity of the Sugar Land 95,” at The American
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Anthropological Association Conference in Toronto, CA on November 16, 2023, where she
explored the impact of white redemptive narratives–in media, archaeology reports, history
curriculum, and cemetery signage–of Black history on the memorialization efforts of the Sugar
Land 95 in Fort Bend County, TX.
Assistant Professor of Sociology Amanda Hernandez presented “‘My Last Evangelical Hold Out’:
Pro-Life, Pro-Choice, and Everything in Between” at the American Academy of Religion
Conference in San Antonio, TX.
November 2023
Professor of Anthropology Melissa Johnson was part of a collaborative team of nearly 50 social
scientists whose publication “Governance and Conservation Effectiveness in Protected Areas and
Indigenous and Locally Managed Areas” Annual Review of Environment and Resources.48: 559-
588 has just come out. It is available here.

--- Page 21 of 35 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
October 2023
This past weekend (Oct 19-22), Assistant Professor of Sociology Amanda Hernandez attended
the Society for the Scientific Study of Religion and convened a session entitled “Feminist
Approaches to the Sociology of Religion.” Additionally, she presented her paper “The Sacred &
The Secular: Examining the Intersection of Feminist Christian Identification and Progressive Social
Issues” with collaborator Tess Starman of Howard University and served as a guest panelist for
“Religion And…How to Bring the Study of Religion into Conversation Across Disciplines.”
Professor of Anthropology Melissa Johnson was an invited speaker for the 26th Meeting of the
United Kingdom-Belize Association (UKBA) at University College London on October 13, 2023.
She presented a revised and longer version of her paper “Lucy’s Story: A Window into the Shore
and the Bay in the late 1700s” via Zoom, and it was very well received.
Assistant Professor of Anthropology Naomi Reed was invited to discuss her podcast “Sugar Land”
on the panel “Can you hear us now? Storytelling in podcasting” at the 2023 Mayborn Literary
Nonfiction Conference hosted by The University of North Texas in Dallas, Texas, this past weekend
October 13-14th. (https://www.themayborn.com/schedule). Dr. Reed and her co-host,
investigative journalist Brittney Martin discussed their process of writing and editing “Sugar Land”
and the benefit of interdisciplinary collaboration in storytelling and producing public scholarship.

--- Page 22 of 35 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
September 2023
Professor of Sociology Maria Lowe, Luis Romero (2018-19 SU Mellon Teaching Fellow), and
Madeline Carrola ’19 published an article titled “‘Racism Masked as Safety Concerns’: The
Experiences of Residents of Color With Racialized Coveillance in a Predominantly White
Neighborhood” in the journal Sociology of Race and Ethnicity. In their article, the authors coin the
term racialized coveillance and discuss ways that residents of color navigate and are negatively
impacted by such resident-initiated monitoring practices.
April 2023
Professor of Sociology Maria Lowe and two sociology students attended the Southern
Sociological Society annual meeting in Myrtle Beach, SC. In addition, Angel Ferrales ’25 presented
her capstone paper titled, “‘As long as everything is legal and consensual, there’s no problem’:
Attitudes that help to predict efforts to ban online subscription sexual content websites,” ThuyMi
Phung ’24 presented her capstone paper, “‘There are Always Going to be the Bad People who
Access the Guns’: Predictors of Americans’ Perspectives on Gun Violence,” and Maria Lowe and
ThuyMi Phung presented their faculty-student collaborative research project titled, “‘Because
history has been whitewashed for decades:’ Predictors of Attitudes about Critical Race Theory”
Katherine Holcomb ’24 was a co-author on this project.

--- Page 23 of 35 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
March 2023
ThuyMi Phung ’23 received the Southern Sociological Society’s 2023 Howard Odum Award for
Best Undergraduate Paper for her capstone paper titled, “‘There are always going to be bad
people who access guns’: Predictors of Americans’ Perspectives on Gun Violence.” Maria Lowe
Professor of Sociology and Morenz Endowed Professor, supervised ThuyMi’s project during this
year’s sociology capstone class.
November 2022
Professor of Anthropology Melissa Johnson presented “Feeling Climate Change in the Unruly
Environment of Central Belize” for the roundtable “How Does Climate Change Feel? (Re)Thinking
Cultural Embodied Responses To Environmental Precarity” at the 2022 annual meeting of the
American Anthropological Association, held November 9-13 in Seattle, Washington.
October 2022
Professor of Anthropology Melissa Johnson traveled with three students who worked with and
were mentored by Assistant Professor of Anthropology Naomi Reed this summer through SCOPE
to represent Southwestern at the Universities Studying Slavery Fall 2022 Conference, held

--- Page 24 of 35 ---

September 28–October 1 in Charlottesville, Virginia. Southwestern’s panel was titled “Revealing
Race and Exploring White Dominance at a Small Liberal Arts School: HowMenu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Confronts (Ignores?) Its White Supremacist Foundations.” Johnson presented a paper coauthored
with Reed titled “An Overview of theRacial History Project”; Maria
(Cony) Cameron ’24 presented “Exploring Policy and Racial Climate”; Aspen Coriz-Romero ’24
presented “Building Communities of Care and Organizing Resistance at”;
and Kellie Henderson ’23 presented “Early Life of Black Students and Faculty onCampus.” The panel was well attended, and attendees (primarily faculty) were very
impressed with the students.
April 2022
Professor of Sociology Sandi Nenga presented her paper “When Six Feet Feels Like Six Miles:
Children’s Images of Their Lives During the Pandemic” at the Southern Sociological Society 85th
Annual Meeting, held April 6–9 in Birmingham, Alabama. Hannah Mitchell ’22 also presented her
capstone paper “Praise on the Stage and Criticism in Class: Understanding Relationships Between
Students and Their Instructors in Competitive Irish Dance Studios.”
March 2022
Professor of Sociology Sandi Nenga published a chapter titled “When Six Feet Feels Like Six
Miles: Children’s Images of Their Lives during the COVID-19 Pandemic” in the book COVID-19 and
Childhood Inequalityedited by Nazneen Kane (Routledge). Students in Nenga’s fall 2020

--- Page 25 of 35 ---

Childhood & Youth class collected the data for this chapter as part of a community-engaged
learning project.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Feburary 2022
Professor of Anthropology Melissa Johnson’s review of Rajeshwari Dutt’s book Empire on Edge:
The British Struggle for Order in Belize during Yucatán’s Caste War, 1847–1901 was recently
published in The American Historical Review.
Professor of Anthropology Melissa Johnson was invited to join the editorial board of PoLAR:
Political and Legal Anthropology Review, the leading journal for political and legal anthropology.
She will serve a three-year term.
December 2021

--- Page 26 of 35 ---

Professor of Sociology Maria Lowe and former students Madeline Carrola ’19, Dakota
Cortez ’19, and Mary Jalufka ’18 published a peer-reviewed article titled “‘I Live Here’: How
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Residents of Color Experience Racialized Surveillance and Diversity Ideology in a Liberal
Predominantly White Neighborhood” in the journal Social Currents. In the article, they identify
digital and in-person racialized surveillance as a key mechanism that enforces racialized
boundaries in publicly accessible neighborhood spaces and highlight how Black and Latinx
residents in particular navigate these practices.
November 2021
Professor of Anthropology Melissa Johnson organized and participated in a roundtable session
cosponsored by the Society for Cultural Anthropology and the American Ethnology Society titled
“Embodying Praxis: Everyday Work Toward a Liberatory Anthropology” at the 2021 American
Anthropological Association Annual Meeting in Baltimore, Maryland, on November 20. One of the
other roundtable participants was Cristina Alcalde, formerly of Southwestern, who now is vice
president for institutional diversity and inclusion and professor of global and intercultural studies
at Miami University in Ohio.
Assistant Professor of Anthropology Naomi Reed recently participated in WAIL, a community
grief ritual performance commemorating the Sugar Land 95. She also presented on an invited
panel discussion hosted by Diverse Works and the African American Library at the Gregory
School titled “Unshackling History: Convict Leasing Camps in Sugar Land, TX.” Reed presented her
research on the white redemptive ways in which the local school district, city, and county are
responding to the discovery of the Sugar Land 95.

--- Page 27 of 35 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
October 2021was well represented at the 11th Race, Ethnicity, and Place Conference,
held October 20–23 in Baltimore, Maryland. The SU Racial History Project presented a panel
featuring research from both 2020 and 2021 SCOPE projects. The panel included:
Professor of Anthropology Melissa Johnson: “The Southwestern Racial History
Project: An Overview”
Kristine Velez ’22 (Anthropology): “McKenzie College: A Plantation on the Edge of
Indigenous Territory”
Saul Zuniga ’22 (History): “Soule University, Slavery, and the Confederacy”
Juan Mojica ’22 (Anthropology): “Hispanics, Methodism, and the Reproduction of
Whiteness”
Rini Mannankara ’22 (Political Science and Anthropology): “The Presence and
Representation of Blackness in the 1960s and 1970s at”
In addition, SU alumna Esther S. Ramos-Garcia ’19 (Latin American and Border Studies), who is
currently a graduate student at the University of Texas in the Teresa Lozano Long Institute of Latin
American Studies program, presented “Accompanando Ninos Migrantes ‘No Accompanados’: A
Feminist Geopolitical Perspective on Central American Unaccompanied Minors in U.S. Long-Term
Foster Care (LTFC)” as part of a panel titled “Asylum in Crisis.”

--- Page 28 of 35 ---

Professor of Sociology and Morenz Endowed Professor Maria Lowe has been invited to serve a
three-year term on the American Sociological Association’s Honors Program Advisory Panel
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
(2022–2024) and a one-year term on the Southern Sociological Society’s Program Committee
(2022).
September 2021
Assistant Professor Sociology Erika Grajeda published an article titled “Worker Centres and
Coming Out Politics in Migrant Struggles” in the journal Citizenship Studies.
Assistant Professor of Anthropology Naomi Reed was invited to present her research findings on
the Sugar Land 95 at the virtual Sugar Land and African American History: Convict Leasing and its
Legacies in Current Scholarship, Education, and Activism Conference held September 10–11. Reed
presented on the relationship between white racial identity formation in Fort Bend County and
the ways in which the city and local school district have made invisible the historical injuries
suffered by the 94 Black men and one woman who worked the sugar plantations that provided
the economic foundation of what is today Sugar Land, Texas.

--- Page 29 of 35 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
August 2021
Katherine Holcomb ’23 participated in the American Sociological Association’s 2021
Undergraduate Honors Program (held online) on August 7. She presented the paper “Fear of
Crime as a Gendered Experience: Gender and Risk Perception in Public Spaces,” which was
originally written for the fall 2020 sociology research methods class.
Professor of Sociology Reggie Byron served on a “Teaching in the Liberal Arts” remote panel for
the sociology department at the Ohio State University on July 28, 2021. He also presented a paper
remotely at the Annual Meetings of the American Sociological Association on August 7, 2021. The
paper, titled “‘Get Rid of That Ghetto Element’: Race, Gender, Work Sector, and Employers’ Ideal
Worker Pursuits” reflected key findings from chapter 2 of his forthcoming Rose Series in
Sociologybook on employment discrimination across the U.S.
April 2021
Are antibias diversity trainings effective? Associate Professor of Sociology Reggie Byron and
others weigh in on the efficacy of these widely used trainings and some of their limitations in this
recent Acorns–CNBC Grownews article.

--- Page 30 of 35 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Megan Piel ’20 presented her sociology capstone paper titled “Watching Horror Films: A
Qualitative Sociological Study of Fear” at the Southern Sociological Society on April 8. The
conference was held online.
Madeline Yu Carrola (’19) had a peer-reviewed article titled “Activists in Red Capes: Women’s Use
of The Handmaid’s Taleto Fight for Reproductive Justice” published in The Journal for
Undergraduate Ethnography. The article is based on her 2018 sociology capstone project.
Feburary 2021
Professor of Sociology Sandi Nenga has been appointed to a three-year term on the editorial
board of Sociological Studies of Children and Youth (UK: Emerald).
January 2021

--- Page 31 of 35 ---

Visiting Assistant Professor of Anthropology Naomi Reed was invited to submit an article
produced from her research on the Sugar Land 95 to the food edition of Anthropology News. The
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
piece, titled “The Darker the History, the Sweeter the Truth: How a White-Identified City Struggles
to Commemorate the Black Lives and Deaths That Produced Its Sugar and Built Its Wealth,” can
be found here.
December 2020
Associate Professor of Sociology Reggie Byron was invited to offer feedback on an equal
employment opportunity policy memo written by the leadership at the Center for Employment
Equity after being solicited by incoming U.S. President Biden and his campaign. Byron’s name
(and Southwestern’s) is listed in the acknowledgments along with those of seven other scholars
from research universities who are noted for having a “deep knowledge of the enforcement
process and EEOC [Equal Employment Opportunity Commission] data quality.”
November 2020
Associate Professor of Sociology Reggie Byron published a review of the book Should Schools be
Colorblind? by Laurie Cooper Stoll in the sociology journal Social Forces. The review can be found
here .

--- Page 32 of 35 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Associate Professor of Sociology Reggie Byron published a peer-reviewed teaching exercise
titled “Teaching Criminology during a Pandemic” in the American Sociological
Association’s Teaching Resources and Innovations Library for Sociology (TRAILS). The resource can
be found here.
October 2020
Professor of Anthropology Mel Johnson, Associate Professor of Education Alicia Moore , and
Professor of Philosophy Phil Hopkins were panelists for the Georgetown Public Library event
“Confronting Racism: A Community Conversation.” The event offered three sessions centered
around three selected texts aimed at children, young adults, and adults. Moore participated in the
panel discussing New Kid by Jerry Craft, a graphic novel about the struggle to fit in with a world
that doesn’t look like you. Hopkins participated in the panel discussing The Hate U Give by Angie
Thomas, which details the impact of police violence on communities of color. Johnson
participated in the panel on Ibram X. Kendi’s How to Be an Antiracist, a best-selling book on how
to fight racism and inequality.
August 2020

--- Page 33 of 35 ---

Professor of Sociology Sandi Nenga presented her paper “Processes of Cultural Capital in a
College Readiness Program Aimed at Latinx, First-Generation Students” at the 2020 American
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Sociological Association meetings on August 8 (held online).
Megan Piel ’20 participated in the American Sociological Association’s 2020 Undergraduate
Honors Program (held online) on August 8. She presented her paper “Religion, Gender, and
Attitudes towards the LGBTQ+ Community,” which was originally written for the Research
Methods class in sociology.
April 2020
Associate Professor of Sociology Reggie Byron is reviewing more than 35 published articles (as
the only invited reviewer from a liberal-arts university) for the prestigious Richard Scott Best
Article Award through the Organizations, Occupations, and Work section of the American
Sociological Association.
Associate Professor of Sociology Reggie Byron had a peer-reviewed article titled “Neighborhood
Context, Race, and U.S. Newspaper Coverage of Home-Invasion Crime” accepted for publication
in the Journal of Criminal Justice and Popular Culture.

--- Page 34 of 35 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Professor of Sociology Maria Lowe, Associate Professor of Sociology Reggie Byron, and student
coauthors Holly O’Hara ’17 and Dakota Cortez ’19 had a peer-reviewed article titled
“Neutralized Hegemonic Banter: The Persistence of Sexist and Racist Joking among
Undergraduate Students” accepted for publication in Sociological Inquiry. This is the fourth such
coauthored campus climate–related study that Lowe and Byron have published.
Feburary 2020
Part-Time Assistant Professor of Anthropology Naomi Reed was interviewed by CBS News to
contribute to a Web and television segment on a Texas textbook’s representations of slavery and
Black people. The article reads in part, “CBS News is not the first to point out problems with The
American Pageant. Dr. Naomi Reed is a sociocultural anthropologist and professor atin Texas. She looked at the 12th edition of the textbook in 2007 and the
15th edition in 2015, and said it consistently takes a white redemptive narrative of American
history.” You can read the article here.

--- Page 35 of 35 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
January 2020
Sociology alumna Samantha Pentecost ’19 has had her capstone paper, “Gendering the Boy
Scouts: Examining Hegemonic Masculinity at a Coed Backpacking Camp,” accepted for
publication in the Journal for Undergraduate Ethnography(vol. 10, no. 2). In addition, sociology
alumna Madeline Carrola ’19 received the best undergraduate paper award for her capstone
paper, “Performing TheHandmaid’s Tale: The Use of Dystopian Literature at Political Protests,” at
the October 2019 Mid-South Sociological Association meeting. Both capstone papers were
written under the direction of Professor of Sociology Maria Lowe.
GEORGETOWN, TEXAS
512.863.6511
CONTACT