--- Page 1 of 3 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
STUDENT RESEARCH AND AWARDS
Sociology Conference Presentations
Every year, our sociology majors present at national and/or regional
conferences. This is an amazing professional opportunity that is typically
supported through Fleming and department funds. These types of
experiences set our majors apart from those at other universities and help
them in the graduate/law school/job application process.
The Honors Program, American Sociological Association meeting, Chicago, Illinois, August
Emily Dimiceli presented “‘Obama was voted president by white people’: Predictors of Americans’
Perceptions of Racism”
The Southern Sociological Society meeting, Charlotte, North Carolina, April 2025
Catherine Angell presented “Presidency or Penitentiary: Exploring Americans’ Attitudes Towards
Felons’ Right to Vote”
Isabella Bahamon presented “Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of Choice: Predicting Americans’
Attitudes Towards Abortion Rights,” which won the 2025 Odum Award for Best Undergraduate
Paper
Emily Dimiceli presented “‘Obama was voted president by white people’: Predictors of Americans’
Perceptions of Racism”
Mary Kate McAdams presented “‘It seems like the system has a few favorites’: Factors that Affect
American Attitudes about Racial and Economic Bias in the Criminal Justice System”

--- Page 2 of 3 ---

Chelsey Rocha presented “‘DEI is just racism against white people’: Americans Attitudes About
Anti-DEI Bills in Higher Education.”
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
The Honors Program, American Sociological Association meeting, Montreal, Canada,
August 2024
Elena Clark, ’24 presented “‘Freedom of the streets’ or ‘Barriers to success?’ Factors that Predict
Attitudes About Homelessness In The United States.”
Carson Maxfield, ’24 presented “Who is More Likely to Support Conspiracy Theories? Examining
the Connections between Education, Gender, and Beliefs in Conspiracy Theory.”
Brigit Reese, ’24 presented “Hope, Nope, or Cope: Americans’ Perceptions about Climate Change
in the 2020s.”
The Southern Sociological Society meeting, New Orleans, LA, April 2024
Elena Clark ’24 presented “‘Freedom of the streets’ or ‘Barriers to success?’ Factors that Predict
Attitudes About Homelessness In The United States.”
Liana Collins ’24 presented “Americans’ Attitudes About Second Language Learning in the U.S.”
Carson Maxfield ’24 presented “Who is More Likely to Support Conspiracy Theories? Examining
the Connections between Education, Gender, and Beliefs in Conspiracy Theory.”
Brigit Reese ’24 presented “Hope, Nope, or Cope: Americans’ Perceptions about Climate Change
in the 2020s.”
The Population Association of America meeting, New Orleans, LA, April 2023
Thuymi Phung ’23 presented “Barriers to healthcare: Mental well being in adolescence and
foregone care in adulthood”
The Southern Sociological Society meeting, Myrtle Beach, SC, April 2023

--- Page 3 of 3 ---

Angel Ferrales ’24 presented “Make Love Not Porn; Attitudes Towards Banning Online
Subscription Sexual Content Websites.”
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
ThuyMi Phung ’23 presented “’There are always going to be the bad people who access the guns’:
Predictors of Americansʼ Perspectives on Gun Violence.”
The Honors Program, American Sociological Association meeting, August 2021
Katherine Holcomb ’23 presented “Fear of Crime as a Gendered Experience: Gender and Risk
Perception in Public Spaces.”
GEORGETOWN, TEXAS
512.863.6511
CONTACT