--- Page 1 of 5 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
MAJORS & MINORS
Sociology & Anthropology
Southwestern undergraduates research how social patterns and cultural
groups affect human attitudes and behaviors.
Maria Lowe
Professor of Sociology
EEMMAAIILL

--- Page 2 of 5 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
In Southwestern’s highly interdisciplinary sociology and anthropology courses, students discover
and interpret how different social and cultural groups understand what it means to be human in the
world. We consider relationships between the public and the private, examining patterns of human
behavior at the individual, interactional, and structural levels. We unpack assumptions about
gender, race, ethnicity, class, and religion and consider how these social and cultural
characteristics shape our thinking and actions.
Studying anthropology and sociology at Southwestern is distinctive because every major conducts
original research—or collaborates with faculty on their research programs—and has the opportunity
the present at professional conferences and/or publish in scholarly journals. Anthropology majors,
for example, engage in ethnographic projects, often while studying away or abroad; recent topics
have included the impacts of tourism on Peruvian textile production and the relationship between

--- Page 3 of 5 ---

race and environmental conservation in Tasmania. Sociology majors engage in both qualitative and
quantitative research; recent projects have examined the racialized experiences of French-born
individuals of North African ethnicities in France and elementary-school teachers’ views on campus
safety.
Equipped with graduate-level research skills as well as empathy and a broader perspective on the
human experience, our graduates learn to engage with the world in thoughtful, positive ways. They
have gone on to explore a range of 21st-century careers, from museum studies, law, social work,
public health, and medicine to sustainable development, nonprofit work, government, and
education.
AFTER SOUTHWESTERN
Featured Alumni Stories
Amiel Padayhag ’20 Reflects on Her Experience Participating in the Fulbright
U.S. Student Program in the Philippines
 
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors

--- Page 4 of 5 ---

Anthropology and feminist studies alumna Amiel Padayhag ’20 earned a 2023-2024 Fulbright U.S.
Student Program Award to conduct anthropological research in the Philippines. Explore her first-
hand account of the experience below.
READ FULL STORY
EXPLORE SOUTHWESTERN
Sociology & Anthropology News
SSEEEE FFUULLLL LLIISSTT
From the Classroom to the Courtroom:Prepares
Students for Successful Careers in Law
Southwestern’s unique approach to a liberal arts education, paired with passionate faculty and
small class sizes, has put countless students on a path to success in law.
READ FULL STORY
 
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors

--- Page 5 of 5 ---

EXPLORE SOUTHWESTERN
Sociology & Anthropology Events
SSEEEE FFUULLLL LLIISSTT
The Group Chat
FIND OUT MORE
 
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors