--- Page 1 of 5 ---

Courseshttps://www.southwestern.edu/classics/courses/
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
CCLLAASSSSIICCSS
Courses
CCLLAA0077--4444--0011:: CCllaassssiiccaall SSiitteess aanndd MMoonnuummeennttss
TTuueessddaayy aanndd TThhuurrssddaayy,, 22::3300--33::4455ppmm
1 of 5 3/24/26, 4:24 PM

--- Page 2 of 5 ---

Courseshttps://www.southwestern.edu/classics/courses/
DDrr.. JJeeffffrreeyy EEaassttoonn
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
AA ttooppooggrraapphhiiccaall ssttuuddyy ooff tthhee cciivviicc,, rreelliiggiioouuss,, aanndd pprriivvaattee ssiitteess aanndd mmoonnuummeennttss ooff AAnncciieenntt
GGrreeeekk aanndd RRoommaann cciittiieess.. TThhrroouugghh tthhee ssttuuddyy ooff ssiittee ppllaannss aanndd ssppaattiiaall aannaallyyssiiss,, ssttuuddeennttss
ccoonnssiiddeerr tthhee ffuunnccttiioonn ooff tthheessee ssiitteess aanndd mmoonnuummeennttss,, hhooww ssiitteess ccoommmmuunniiccaatteedd wwiitthh eeaacchh
ootthheerr,, aanndd hhooww tthheeiirr ttooppooggrraapphhiiccaall ppllaacceemmeenntt aanndd oorrnnaammeennttaattiioonn sshhaappeedd hhuummaann
iinntteerraaccttiioonn wwiitthhiinn tthhee ssppaaccee aanndd rreeiinnffoorrcceedd tthhee ppoowweerr aanndd pprreessttiiggee ooff tthhoossee wwhhoo
ccoonnssttrruucctteedd tthheemm..
The Classics curriculum includes courses in Greek language and literature, Latin language and
literature, and Classics in translation.
For Placement Information and credit (placement, AP, IB), please click here.
Below you will find a list of our current or recent offerings. See the course catalog for
descriptions and updated information.
GGRREEEEKK LLAATTIINN CCLLAASSSSIICCSS
0077--220044 GGrreeeekk aanndd RRoommaann MMyytthhoollooggyy
A study of the traditional cycles of Classical Mythology and the essential role myths
played in Greek and Roman culture, especially the ways myth was employed to
reinforce contemporary socio-political ideologies. Students encounter the myths
through a variety of ancient evidence, including literature, artwork, material culture,
and religious cultic practices, and engage with the most important historical and
contemporary theories of mythology. Particular attention is given to the formation of
these myths in a global context and the recrystallization of Classical myth in later
literature and art. (H)
0077--223344 MMaarrbbllee CCiinneemmaattiicc UUnniivveerrssee CCllaass iinn CCiinneemmaa
In this course, students watch a selection of films based on Classical topics and
explore corresponding ancient literary sources (in translation), artwork, and
archaeology to understand how the ancient world is perceived, why stories set in the
Classical world allow us to explore contemporary themes, and how the cultural
context of the audience changes traditional narratives. Special attention is given to
2 of 5 3/24/26, 4:24 PM

--- Page 3 of 5 ---

Courseshttps://www.southwestern.edu/classics/courses/
how films based on Classical themes have contributed to modern debates on social,
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
economic, political, and cultural issues. (H)
0077--224444 SSwweeaattyy AAnnttiiqquuiittyy:: SSppoorrtt && SSppeeccttaaccllee
A study of the central place sports and public spectacles and entertainment held in
Ancient Greek and Roman society. Through analysis of literary and artistic
representations of events such as the religious festivals and Panhellenic and regional
games in the Greek world and gladiatorial combat, chariot races, and triumphal
processions in Rome, students gain an understanding of the embeddedness of these
events in the fabric of Greek and Roman society and track how changes in
performance reflected contemporary social norms and values. (H)
0077--332244 IInnvviissiibbllee RRoommaannss SSuubb--EElliittee && MMaarrggiinnaalliizzee
A study of the diverse ethnic and socioeconomic groups who occupied the margins of
Roman society and how these groups made their way in the Roman world by operating
within existing institutions or by forging new avenues for civic engagement and upward
social mobility. Students consider a range of ancient evidence, including literary and
legal sources, art and material culture, physical spaces and economic instruments,
and personal inscriptions. Contributes to Race and Ethnicity Studies/Allied Course.
(H)
0077--333344 EEmmppeerroorrss BBeehhaavviinngg BBaaddllyy:: HHiissttoorryy RRoommaann
A study of the evolving relationship between imperial power and the wider Roman
social order, economy, and rule of law. Guided by recent scholarly reassessments of
the position of the emperor in the Roman world, students explore several
sociopolitical developments and episodes by which we can track the expansion of
imperial power and how the emperors articulated their position through various
media. Contributes to Legal Studies Certificate. (H)
0077--334444 WWaarr && SSoocciieettyy AAnncciieenntt GGrreeeeccee && RRoommee
In this course, students focus on the intersection of military participation and civic life
in Ancient Greece and Rome. Students engage with a range of primary evidence, from
literary narratives to military inscriptions to the artifacts and physical remains of
3 of 5 3/24/26, 4:24 PM

--- Page 4 of 5 ---

Courseshttps://www.southwestern.edu/classics/courses/
equipment and frontier garrisons. Special attention is given to evaluating this
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
heterogeneous primary evidence and understanding the methodological problems
encountered in the study of institutions in any historical society. (H)
0077--440044 EEmmppiirree ooff CCiittiieess:: UUrrbbaann LLiiffee RRoommaann WWoorrlldd
A study of the rich evidence for urban life at sites throughout the Roman empire.
Rather than studying the Roman world as a monolith, students explore the diverse
social groups and legal, economic, and religious institutions that imbued civic life and
the institutions that linked the elite and sub-elite. (H)
0077--443344 GGrreeeekk && LLaattiinn iinn SScciieennttiifificc TTeerrmmiinnoollooggyy
A study of the vocabulary of technical terms derived from Ancient Greek and Latin
that abound in the natural sciences, particularly the life sciences, and other fields such
as law. Students acquire the ability to analyze word elements and diagnose the
meaning of technical terms through both discussion of historical linguistics,
etymology, and methods and completion of hands-on assignments that put these skills
into practice. Contributes to Health Studies and Spanish for Healthcare Professions
Certificate. (H)
0077--444444 CCllaassssiiccaall SSiitteess aanndd MMoonnuummeennttss
A study of key archaeological sites and monuments in the Classical World with a focus
on their function, the messages they conveyed, how their construction impacted on
social interaction within the spaces, and how approaches to building reflected
changing social and political norms over time. Special attention is given to the
topography of Athens and Rome and their array of civic, religious, and private sites
and monuments. (H)
0077--993344 CCaappssttoonnee SSeemmiinnaarr
This course fulfills the capstone requirement in Classical Civilizations. As an
integrative experience, the capstone challenges students to interrelate knowledge,
insights, and perspectives gained in their linguistic and cultural studies and in their
undergraduate experience. Students will be guided through independent research and
writing that demonstrates proficiency in their select area of classical studies. They will
4 of 5 3/24/26, 4:24 PM

--- Page 5 of 5 ---

Courseshttps://www.southwestern.edu/classics/courses/
produce an extended formal research paper and deliver a formal oral presentation
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
introducing their project. (Fall or Spring) (H) (WA)
GGEEOORRGGEETTOOWWNN,, TTEEXXAASS
551122..886633..66551111
CCOONNTTAACCTT
5 of 5 3/24/26, 4:24 PM