--- Page 1 of 4 ---

Courseshttps://www.southwestern.edu/classics/courses/
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
CCLLAASSSSIICCSS
Courses
CCLLAA0077--4444--0011:: CCllaassssiiccaall SSiitteess aanndd MMoonnuummeennttss
TTuueessddaayy aanndd TThhuurrssddaayy,, 22::3300--33::4455ppmm
1 of 4 3/24/26, 4:24 PM

--- Page 2 of 4 ---

Courseshttps://www.southwestern.edu/classics/courses/
DDrr.. JJeeffffrreeyy EEaassttoonn
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
AA ttooppooggrraapphhiiccaall ssttuuddyy ooff tthhee cciivviicc,, rreelliiggiioouuss,, aanndd pprriivvaattee ssiitteess aanndd mmoonnuummeennttss ooff AAnncciieenntt
GGrreeeekk aanndd RRoommaann cciittiieess.. TThhrroouugghh tthhee ssttuuddyy ooff ssiittee ppllaannss aanndd ssppaattiiaall aannaallyyssiiss,, ssttuuddeennttss
ccoonnssiiddeerr tthhee ffuunnccttiioonn ooff tthheessee ssiitteess aanndd mmoonnuummeennttss,, hhooww ssiitteess ccoommmmuunniiccaatteedd wwiitthh eeaacchh
ootthheerr,, aanndd hhooww tthheeiirr ttooppooggrraapphhiiccaall ppllaacceemmeenntt aanndd oorrnnaammeennttaattiioonn sshhaappeedd hhuummaann
iinntteerraaccttiioonn wwiitthhiinn tthhee ssppaaccee aanndd rreeiinnffoorrcceedd tthhee ppoowweerr aanndd pprreessttiiggee ooff tthhoossee wwhhoo
ccoonnssttrruucctteedd tthheemm..
The Classics curriculum includes courses in Greek language and literature, Latin language and
literature, and Classics in translation.
For Placement Information and credit (placement, AP, IB), please click here.
Below you will find a list of our current or recent offerings. See the course catalog for
descriptions and updated information.
GGRREEEEKK LLAATTIINN CCLLAASSSSIICCSS
1133--114444 GGrreeeekk II
Essentials of grammar, composition, and reading. Students will acquire basic
translation skills and build a core vocabulary, and they will support their language
learning with the study of Greek society and culture. (Fall)
1133--115544 GGrreeeekk IIII
Continued study of grammar, composition and reading. Students will learn more
complex syntactical constructions and begin translating more sustained Greek
passages. Prerequisite: Greek 13-144, or equivalent placement. (Spring)
1133--116644 GGrreeeekk IIIIII
Students will build on the fundamentals they acquired in introductory Greek and
strengthen their skills in translation and interpretation through a variety of Greek
prose and poetry texts. Readings and cultural studies of prose authors such as
Herodotus, Xenophon (history), Plato, and Aristotle (philosophy) and poetry by
Hesiod, the anonymous Homeric Hymns (epic), and a selection by Hellenistic poets, as
2 of 4 3/24/26, 4:24 PM

--- Page 3 of 4 ---

Courseshttps://www.southwestern.edu/classics/courses/
well as New Testament Greek. Prerequisite: Greek 13-154, or equivalent placement.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
(Fall)
1133--220044 RReeaaddiinnggss iinn GGrreeeekk PPrroossee
This course is specifically designed for intermediate students and includes rigorous
study of Greek texts in focused thematic areas. Students will encounter the texts in
their cultural, historical, and political contexts and become more familiar with issues
of composition and transmission, as well as current interpretive approaches and
important secondary scholarship. May be repeated with change in topic. Topics
offered on a rotating basis of prose and poetry. The range of topics include the
ethnographic writings of Herodotus; Thucydides and his historiographical methods;
the oratory of Lysias and Demosthenes; Greek historians under the Roman Empire;
and Presocratic philosophers. Prerequisite: Greek 13-164, or equivalent placement.
(H)
1133--334444 RReeaaddiinnggss iinn GGrreeeekk PPooeettrryy
This course is specifically designed for intermediate and advanced students who have
completed at least three semesters of Greek. In addition to strengthening skills in
translation, interpretation, and textual analysis, students will encounter Greek texts in
their cultural, historical, and political contexts. May be repeated with change in topic.
Topics offered on a rotating basis of prose and poetry. The range of topics include
Homer's epic poems Iliad and Odyssey; Greek tragedy; and Archaic Lyric poetry by
such authors as Archilochus, Alcaeus, and Sappho. Prerequisite: Greek 13-164, or
equivalent placement. (H)
1133--993344 CCaappssttoonnee SSeemmiinnaarr
This course fulfills the capstone requirement in Classical Languages. As an integrative
experience, the capstone challenges students to interrelate knowledge, insights, and
perspectives gained in their linguistic and cultural studies and in their undergraduate
experience. Students will be guided through independent research and writing that
demonstrates advanced proficiency in their select area of classical studies. They will
produce an extended formal research paper and deliver a formal oral presentation
3 of 4 3/24/26, 4:24 PM

--- Page 4 of 4 ---

Courseshttps://www.southwestern.edu/classics/courses/
introducing their project. (Fall or Spring) (H) (WA)
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
GGEEOORRGGEETTOOWWNN,, TTEEXXAASS
551122..886633..66551111
CCOONNTTAACCTT
4 of 4 3/24/26, 4:24 PM