--- Page 1 of 6 ---

What Others Are Sayinghttps://www.southwestern.edu/classics/why-study-classics/what-others-a...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
WWHHYY SSTTUUDDYY CCLLAASSSSIICCSS
What Others Are Saying
Students study the Classics to prepare for a variety of careers in business.
•
“Until I started working for a cycling team the Latin was a little less obvious,
but now I have to communicate with native French, Italian and Spanish
speakers all the time. Knowing the structure of romantic (i.e., Latin-based)
languages helps immensely, even when they are speaking to me in English. At
the time I took Latin from Dr. Haskell, I was just enjoying reading ancient Latin
texts with him − I certainly didn’t know how useful it would be later on.” (Ryan
Parks ’01, CFO of a major cycling team).
Click here for a post on “Why Studying Latin, More So Than Business, Is Ideal
Training for Actually Running a Business .”
Students find the study of Classics to be excellent preparation for careers in
journalism.
•
“When you came back from Kosovo, you spent a year reading the classics.
What were you trying to understand?” - Bob Abernethy
1 of 6 3/24/26, 4:25 PM

--- Page 2 of 6 ---

What Others Are Sayinghttps://www.southwestern.edu/classics/why-study-classics/what-others-a...
•
“I did that on the advice of James Freedman, the former president of
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Dartmouth, and it was one of the smartest things I did because, of course,
Thucydides, Cicero, Virgil — all of these great writers dealt with the same
issues. Virgil and Cicero came out of a very bloody civil war that ended with the
reign of Augustus.” - Chris Hedges
•
“I was freed from the cant of my own society and allowed to grapple with
those issues in a way that brought them into clearer focus. I saw, for instance,
in writers such as Aristotle how great minds in societies are limited. Even
though Aristotle opposed slavery, he believed that slavery would never be
eradicated. It allowed me to come back and look at our own society and my
own life in a way that I hadn’t before. And then, quite frankly, I found that a lot
of the writing of Catullus, this great lyric Roman poet, just spoke to me over
hundreds of years in a very powerful and moving way. I memorized a lot of
Catullus’s poems. And when I went to visit Kurt Schork’s grave in Sarajevo, I
Students study the Classics as strong preparation for law school.
•
“The law school applicants with the highest grade point averages and LSAT
scores studied the classics in college, according to a recent analysis of data
from the Law School Admissions Council by Derek Muller, associate professor
at Pepperdine University School of Law. (National Jurist, 4/22/2014 )
•
“…according to Harvard Magazine, Classics majors (and math majors) have
the highest success rates of any majors in law school. Believe it or not: political
science, economics, and pre-law majors lag fairly far behind. Even
furthermore, Classics majors consistently have some of the highest scores on
GREs of all undergraduates. (The Princeton Review )
•
“Law schools report that by yardsticks of law review and grades, their top
2 of 6 3/24/26, 4:25 PM

--- Page 3 of 6 ---

What Others Are Sayinghttps://www.southwestern.edu/classics/why-study-classics/what-others-a...
students come from math, the Classics, and literature - with political science,
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
economics, ‘pre - law,’ and ‘legal studies’ ranking lower.” (Harvard Magazine,
May-June, 1998, p. 50) (cf. “The Value of a Liberal Arts Education ”
[Harvard])
•
Classics majors score highest LSAT scores : “Law school applicants who
identified their college major as criminal justice, pre-law or law didn’t fare as
well on the LSAT as those who studied nonlaw disciplines such as the classics
and art history.”
•
“I finished law school Nov. of ’10. Now I’m working law out in the Hillcountry
(Marble Falls, Horseshoe Bay, Llano, Burnet etc.). Please tell any current SU
student considering Classical studies as a major or minor that the program in all
its forms would be an excellent foundation for legal studies. Of course there is
the vocabulary / word-root knowledge and history, both of which are helpful
for legal terms of art (e.g. ‘Res Gestae’ an exclusion to the hearsay rule), but
more than that: the mental process and rigor of translating the original
languages and making recitations of your translations on the spot in class is
very similar to the process of reciting the often obscure and numerous rules out
of case law. I found that mental process is extremely important in law school
because the exams are recitations of rules (holdings) applied to new sets of
facts to produce a ‘legal’ conclusions. The faster and more efficiently you recite
and apply the rules, the more points the Prof. will give you on the exam. So, the
only change I would have made to my SU studies looking back is that I would
taken more Classics classes. I should have learned Latin! I’m sure you have
heard all this before from past students…..but that is because it is true!” (EElliijjaahh
MMccLLeeoodd ’’0077)
•
“Learning a language such as Latin or ancient Greek is similar to learning the
law. There is a set of legal rules (grammar) which must be applied to translate
the outcome of unique fact situations (original Latin or Greek texts). The skill of
taking a structured language with rules, exceptions, and exceptions to
3 of 6 3/24/26, 4:25 PM

--- Page 4 of 6 ---

What Others Are Sayinghttps://www.southwestern.edu/classics/why-study-classics/what-others-a...
exceptions and learning how to use it has provided me with a huge advantage in
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
my legal studies. I even use similar studying methods to memorize case law and
statute elements that I used to study ancient Greek and Latin.” (AAaarroonn BBllaaiirr
’’0088))
•
“My Classics major and the tutelage of the Classics department (and Dr.
Haskell in particular, as my advisor) have served me well since graduating
Southwestern. I ended up going to law school, and I now make daily use the
analytical skills acquired as a Classics major in my law practice.
“I found there was much more to a Classics major than Greek myths and
beginner’s Latin…. The acquired skill of careful analysis inherent to translating
Students study the Classics to provide a rigorous foundation for a career in
medicine.
•
“We can’t overestimate the value of a Classics major. Check this out:
according to Association of American Medical Colleges, students who major or
double-major in Classics have a better success rate getting into medical school
than do students who concentrate solely in biology, microbiology, and other
branches of science. Crazy, huh? Furthermore, according to Harvard
Magazine, Classics majors (and math majors) have the highest success rates of
any majors in law school. Believe it or not: political science, economics, and
pre-law majors lag fairly far behind. Even furthermore, Classics majors
consistently have some of the highest scores on GREs of all undergraduates.”
(The Princeton Review )
•
“So much of medical terminology is rooted in the Classics that studying
Greek can facilitate study of anatomy for instance. But studying the Classics
opens other doors that physicians tend to have closed just by the focused
4 of 6 3/24/26, 4:25 PM

--- Page 5 of 6 ---

What Others Are Sayinghttps://www.southwestern.edu/classics/why-study-classics/what-others-a...
interest of their studies. Classics can be a vehicle for staying in touch with life -
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
spiritual growth by reading the New Testament in its original language or
cultural growth by reading the Iliad.” (Dr. Eric Dahl, Director, The University of
Mississippi Student Health Service)
•
“I started out as a classics major. I’m now Professor of Biochemistry and
Students study the Classics to develop a deeper understanding of words and
writing.
•
“It took Latin to thrust me into bona fide alliance with words in their true
meaning. Learning Latin…fed my love for words upon words, words in
continuation and modification, and the beautiful accretion of a sentence….”
(Eudora Welty, One Writer’s Beginnings, p. 31)
•
“But it was his Latin classes that had the most enduring influence on his
future art. ‘It allows you to adore words,’ Geisel [Dr. Seuss] once said about
GGEEOORRGGEETTOOWWNN,, TTEEXXAASS
551122..886633..66551111
5 of 6 3/24/26, 4:25 PM

--- Page 6 of 6 ---

What Others Are Sayinghttps://www.southwestern.edu/classics/why-study-classics/what-others-a...
CCOONNTTAACCTT
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
6 of 6 3/24/26, 4:25 PM