--- Page 1 of 2 ---

Why Study Classicshttps://www.southwestern.edu/classics/why-study-classics/
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
CCLLAASSSSIICCSS
Why Study Classics
Classics students develop the 4exibility and creativity to become leaders
and innovators in a variety of careers.
Majoring in Classics provides an enjoyable and intellectually enriching foundation for a whole
range of pursuits, including writing, law, life sciences, business, and journalism.
The Princeton Review writes:
We can’t overestimate the value of a Classics major. Check this out: according to
Association of American Medical Colleges, students who major or double-major in Classics
have a better success rate getting into medical school than do students who concentrate
solely in biology, microbiology, and other branches of science. Crazy, huh? Furthermore,
according to Harvard Magazine, Classics majors (and math majors) have the highest success
rates of any majors in law school. Believe it or not: political science, economics, and pre-
law majors lag fairly far behind. Even furthermore, Classics majors consistently have some
of the highest scores on GREs of all undergraduates.
Shocked? Don’t be. One reason Classics majors are so successful is that they completely
master grammar. Medical terminology, legal terminology, and all those ridiculously
worthless vocabulary words on the GRE (and the SAT) have their roots in Greek and Latin.
Ultimately, though, Classics majors get on well in life because they develop intellectual
rigor, communications skills, analytical skills, the ability to handle complex information,
and, above all, a breadth of view which few other disciplines can provide.
An excellent statement on the direct relevance of Classics in the 21st century has been
published jointly by the Society for Classical Studies and the Archaeological Institute of America.
For a nice synopsis of what majoring in Classics entails and the varied career options are out
1 of 2 3/24/26, 4:24 PM

--- Page 2 of 2 ---

Why Study Classicshttps://www.southwestern.edu/classics/why-study-classics/
there, see Careers for Classicists , put out by the Society for Classical Studies.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
For the importance of Classics in higher education, please see “The Classics Major and Liberal
Education ,” the results of a study conducted by the Center for Hellenic Studies .
GGEEOORRGGEETTOOWWNN,, TTEEXXAASS
551122..886633..66551111
CCOONNTTAACCTT
2 of 2 3/24/26, 4:24 PM