--- Page 1 of 6 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
PHILOSOPHY
Courses
Below you will find a list of our current or recent offerings. See the course catalog for descriptions
and updated information.
18-104 Selected Introductory Topics
Topics chosen introduce students to philosophical questions and methods in relation to
historical or contemporary issues and often from an interdisciplinary perspective. May be
repeated with change in topic. (H)
18-114 What Is Philosophy?
An introduction to conceptions and practices of philosophy as modes of thinking, investigating,
and writing about the world and ourselves, as well as the ways in which such conceptions and
practices are situated within their historical and geopolitical contexts. (H)
18-124 Critical Thinking
An introduction to the nature and structure of logical argumentation. Students will learn to
analyze, construct, and evaluate arguments, as well as to identify common forms of fallacious
thinking. These skills will be applied to the analysis of philosophical, moral, and political
reasoning, among others, to improve reading and writing competences and to become more
rigorous thinkers overall. Contributes to Legal Studies Certificate. (H)
18-144 Philosophy of Love & Sex
This course explores diverse perspectives on sex and love, including ethical, religious, political,
and cultural issues surrounding them. Emphasis will be placed on contemporary
understandings and beliefs, as well as practices of intimacy in the U.S. and globally. The goal
of the course is to encourage philosophical reflection on topics related to sex and love. Key
themes, such as gender, race/ethnicity, sexual orientation, class, nation, and ability, will be

--- Page 2 of 6 ---

consistently examined throughout the course. Materials will range from traditional academic
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
texts to films, podcasts, music videos, documentaries, etc. Contributes to Feminist Studies and
Race and Ethnicity Studies/Allied Course. (H)
18-164 Self, Ethics, Society
An introduction to philosophical investigations of the character, development, and care for the
self, with an emphasis on the question of the self's relationships to others: ethical
responsibilities, social structures, and the relation between the two. Contributes to Legal
Studies Certificate and Spanish for Healthcare Professions Certificate. (H)
18-194 Introduction to Feminist Philosophies
An historically informed introduction to key texts in feminist theory. Our approach to the
issues and debates will be interdisciplinary and readings will be drawn from a range of
disciplines such as philosophy, anthropology, sociology, psychoanalysis, and cultural studies.
Contributes to Feminist Studies and Race and Ethnicity Studies/Allied Course. (H) (SJ) (PJ)
18-214 Politics and Economics
A critical exploration of the development and implications of the peculiarly modern
understanding of politics and the economy as distinct and autonomous spheres, tracing some
of the key historical stages in articulating (and troubling) this distinction and exploring various
Marxist, Polanyian, feminist and other critiques of it, as well as the alternatives they propose.
Contributes to Economics, International Studies, and Legal Studies Certificate. (H)
18-234 Environmental Philosophy
An examination of some of the philosophical, ethical, and political questions posed for
contemporary society by climate change and the ecological crisis. Particular focus will be given
to interrogating the idea of Nature, as something outside of, opposed to, pre-existing human
beings, and possible alternatives to it, as well as to questions of how we might think/live/do
politics in an era where many effects of long-term climate change are now clearly unavoidable.
Contributes to Environmental Studies. (H)
18-244 Native American Philosophies
A selective survey of philosophical thought developed by the original inhabitants of territories
variously known as Abya Yala, Turtle Island, Anáhuac, or in modern colonial terms, the
Americas. We will consider the philosophies and practices of these groups against the

--- Page 3 of 6 ---

conceptual framework constituted by the triad Modernity/Coloniality/Decoloniality. Readings
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
will be drawn from Andean, Nahua, Mayan, Haudenosaunee, Diné, and Lakota traditions.
Contributes to International Studies, Latin American and Border Studies, and Race and
Ethnicity Studies/Group-Theme Course. (H)
18-254 Philosophy, Race & Revolution
This course is oriented by the Haitian Revolution, the only successful slave revolution in
history, which exposed the contradictions of Western philosophy's developing notions of race
and its new universalist vision of human rights. Beginning with that revolution, the course
follows the development of this contradiction - and efforts to redress it - through abolition,
across waves of civil rights and anticolonial struggles across the 20th century, and into the
present day. Contributes to International Studies, Latin American and Border Studies and Race
and Ethnicity Studies/Allied Course. (H)
18-284 Latin American Philosophy
An introduction to modern and contemporary Latin American philosophy (incl. Hispanic-
American) and its European and indigenous roots. Key issues to be considered are colonialism
and decolonial practices, knowledge production, nationality, race, ethnicity and gender.
Readings to be drawn from authors such as Bolívar, Martí, Vasconcelos, Alcoff, Mariátegui,
Anzald a, Rivera Cusicanqui, Quijano, Mignolo, Freire, among others. Contributes to
International Studies and Race and Ethnicity Studies/Allied Course. (H) (SJ) (PJ)
18-314 Marxisms
An introduction and examination of key concepts and debates in the development of Marxist
theory, from Marx to the present day. Particular emphasis will be given to conceptions of class
and class struggle, including how class relates to issues of gender and race; questions of
political organization ('the party,' social movements, etc.); and conceptions of alternatives to
capitalism. Contributes to International Studies. (H)
18-324 The Embodied Self
An exploration of the emergence of this modern concept, the self, in its psychological,
autobiographical, phenomenological, anthropological, political and epistemological contours,
as well as the way in which accounts of the self have reckoned with its grounding in the body.

--- Page 4 of 6 ---

Readings may be drawn from a variety of disciplines. Contributes to Feminist Studies, and Race
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
and Ethnicity Studies/Allied Course. (H)
18-334 19th/20th Century Philosophy
A selective survey of key thinkers, texts, and traditions across the 19th and 20th centuries.
Possible topics range from Hegel to standpoint epistemology; existentialism to psychoanalysis;
phenomenology to poststructuralism. This course will combine careful reading and analysis of
texts, concepts, and arguments with efforts to situate them within an increasingly global world
of ethical, political and social relations: revolutionary upsurges and the rise of mass
democracy, industrialization and de-industrialization, feminist waves, fossil fuel and financial
economies, the heights of imperialism and antiracist, anticolonial and decolonial struggles. (H)
18-354 Critical Philosophy of Race
A selective survey of contemporary critical philosophical approaches to race, with emphasis on
intersections with gender, class, nationalism and imperialism. This course focuses on the ways
race has been constructed as a category of identity across various cultures, academic
disciplines and historical periods, and on the relationship between race and ethnicity as
categories of difference. Contributes to Feminist Studies, International Studies, and Race and
Ethnicity Studies/Concepts Course. (H)
18-374 Feminist Ethics
This course traces the history and development of feminist ethics while considering its central
issues and overall project. Areas of concentration may include discussions of human rights and
social justice, transnational perspectives in ethical theories or biomedical ethics, and what it
means to live a feminist life. Contributes to Feminist Studies. (H)
18-614 Ethos, Identities, Differences
This course will focus on historical understandings of the interactions between individuals and
society, especially on the ways in which a society's ethos, its overarching set of ideals, values
and beliefs, relates to the ideals, values and beliefs of individuals within that society. It will
examine the ways in which both individual identities and social identities are formed, the extent
to which a society constructs individual identity, and vice versa. Further, the course will
examine the ways in which differences emerge both within individuals and in society and the

--- Page 5 of 6 ---

extent to which the societal ethos allows and is transformed by difference. Prerequisite: One
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
course in Philosophy. (H) (CRITICAL HISTORIES)
18-624 Being, Structure, Change
This course focuses upon the conceptual categories through which human beings negotiate
their experience of themselves and the world and examines how those categories are formed
and gain or lose currency. In every age and currently, ideas about order and structure; what
kinds of things there are and how they relate; how things work, be, or become the things they
are; and how we are to understand both the processes of change and the background within
which change occurs, such as space and time itself, shape both how we see ourselves and the
world and how we act in it. Prerequisite: One course in Philosophy. (H) (CRITICAL HISTORIES).
18-634 Experience, Language, Knowledge
Humans are knowers: we generate truths and beliefs about the world and our place in it that
guide our behavior and our work, as well as our cultural and political forms. This course asks
questions such as: How is knowledge possible? What counts as knowledge? What are the limits
of human knowledge? This kind of inquiry analyses the way knowledge is determined by
mental, perceptual, emotional and social phenomena, particularly experience and language,
and whether this determination is informed by historical processes. Prerequisite: One course in
Philosophy. (H) (CRITICAL HISTORIES).
18-644 Peoples, Power, Organization
This course focuses on historical understandings and productions of collective social and
political identities and agents, the manners (political, economic, cultural, etc.) in which such
collectives relate to one another, and the various ways in which such relations have been and
could be organized. How might understandings different forms of power and organization
assist us in redressing various forms of oppression, domination, exploitation; in furthering
various forms of empowerment, equality, justice, liberation? What is the relationship between
philosophy and social transformation? Prerequisite: One course in Philosophy. Contributes to
Legal Studies Certificate. (H) (CRITICAL HISTORIES)
18-914 Colloquium in Philosophy
Required of majors in Philosophy, normally in their final year. Offered every fall. Prerequisite:
Philosophy 18-604. (H) (WA)

--- Page 6 of 6 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
GEORGETOWN, TEXAS
512.863.6511
CONTACT