--- Page 1 of 11 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
PHILOSOPHY
Notable Faculty & Student Achievements
March 2026
Assistant Professor of Philosophy Zinhle ka’Nobuhlaluse was invited to speak to the graduate
students who are part of the Minorities in Philosophy (MAP) Chapter at Texas State University on
February 24. Dr. ka’Nobuhlaluse shared about their research, graduate experiences (in South
Africa and the US), and challenges and joys of navigating philosophy as a Black woman.
November 2025
Assistant Professor of Philosophy Zinhle ka’Nobuhlaluse had the essay, “An Ode to the
Domestics, the Minors of Apartheid, My Grandmother Among Them,” published on the Caribbean
Philosophical Association’s blog, Caliban’s Readings. It can be read here. The piece is a
philosophical and personal meditation on Black women who worked as domestics under
Apartheid, with a special focus on ka’Nobuhlaluse’s maternal grandmother. It explores how
bureaucracy, racial capitalism, and patriarchal law rendered these women “minors,” even as their
labour sustained families, homes, and the nation. Drawing on Black feminist and Africana
philosophy, as well as autobiographical writing, ka’Nobuhlaluse thinks through archives not only
as formal institutions but as living, intergenerational memory carried in bodies, stories, and
ordinary objects. ka’Nobuhlaluse wrote this essay while teaching an FYS on Apartheid.

--- Page 2 of 11 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Assistant Professor of Philosophy Zinhle ka’Nobuhlaluse was invited to comment on Hannah
Bacon’s paper, “A Critical Phenomenology of Carceral Time,” presented at the 63rd annual Society
for Phenomenology Existential Philosophy Conference. This year’s conference was held online
over two weekends, October 17–18 and 24–25.
October 2025
Assistant Professor of Philosophy Zinhle ka’Nobuhlaluse presented a paper titled “Towards a
Black Consciousness like Black Feminist praxis” at the 43rd Annual Spindel Conference, hosted by
the Philosophy Department at the University of Memphis from September 25-27. The conference
proceedings will be published in a special issue of the Southern Journal of Philosophy.
September 2025

--- Page 3 of 11 ---

During the summer, Assistant Professor of Philosophy Zinhle ka’Nobuhlaluse participated in a
workshop on “African Voices in Global Intellectual History” in Konstanz, Germany from June 23 –
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
25. They presented their working chapter, which is a commentary on one of Mamphela
Ramphele’s essays. The workshop aims to publish contributions into a book anthology that will
feature African figures of the 19th and 20th centuries in annotated original documents. The
reader aims to contribute to bringing African voices into the global historical perspective and thus
stimulate new research.
April 2025
Assistant Professor of Philosophy Zinhle ka’Nobuhlaluse presented a paper titled “Living In
Contemporarity: Towards an afro-fem ethic of sufficiency” and participated in a closed workshop
on MJ Alexander’s book Pedagogies of Crossing: Meditations on Feminism, Sexual Politics, Memory,
and the Sacred at the philoSOPHIA Conference held at Texas A&M University in College Station
on April 10.
March 2025
Assistant Professor of Philosophy Zinhle ka’Nobuhlaluse was awarded the Kristeller-Popkin
Travel Fellowship worth $4,000 from the Journal of the History of Philosophy for a research project
titled “Interrogating Apartheid’s Foundations through Alfred Hoernlé’s Philosophy.” Dr.
ka’Nobuhlaluse is one of two awardees to receive the highly competitive grant.

--- Page 4 of 11 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
February 2025
Assistant Professor of Philosophy Zinhle ka’Nobuhlaluse co-edited, along with Maha Marouan
and Alicia Decker, and contributed a critical interview to the piece “In Conversation with
Mamphela Ramphele on the Urgency of Storytelling for Blackwomen in South Africa,” in Writing
African Feminist Subjectivities, the first-ever special issue on African feminism in the history of the
journal Feminist Formations. This landmark issue, now live on Project MUSE, brings together a
powerful collective of feminist scholars, activists, and artists, engaging with African feminist
thought in profound and transformative ways. The Writing African Feminist Subjectivities issue
can be accessed here.
Professor of Philosophy Michael Bray discussed the crisis of democracy and populist politics as
the guest for an episode of the limited podcast series Crisis Point, run by the Sheffield Political
Economy Research Institute (SPERI) at the University of Sheffield, England. The series will air in
March.

--- Page 5 of 11 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
January 2025
Assistant Professor of Philosophy Zinhle ka’Nobuhlaluse presented at the first annual
conference of the League of African Women Philosophers (LAWP) held virtually on January 25–26.
The title of their paper was “Reading Makhoere’s Autobiography of Prison Under Apartheid South
Africa via an ‘Existential Standpoint.’” The League of African Women Philosophers is important
because it represents a vital step toward addressing the historical underrepresentation of African
women in philosophy and the broader intellectual discourse.
Assistant Professor of Philosophy Zinhle ka’Nobuhlaluse’s book review on Simone de Beauvoir
and the Colonial Experience: Freedom, Violence, and Identity by Nathalie Nya was published online
under “Volume 34 (2023): Issue 2 (December 2024): Special Issue: Sites of Coercion: Plantation,
Colony, Metropole,” edited by Janine Jones, in Simone de Beauvoir Studies. In the review, Dr.
ka’Nobuhlaluse unpacks Nya’s compelling arguments and discusses how this book challenges us
to rethink Beauvoir’s relevance in today’s global struggles for liberation and justice. The review
also critiques the use of phrases such as “non-white” within European and American scholarship
by drawing attention to the problematic uses as seen in Apartheid South Africa. It can be
read here.
November 2024
Assistant Professor of Philosophy Zinhle ka’Nobuhlaluse had a piece in public philosophy, titled
“A Clothing Paradox Unbuttoned: Why We Should All Be Ethical Shoppers,” published in the Blog

--- Page 6 of 11 ---

of the APA (American Philosophical Association) on November 21. In the work, Dr. ka’Nobuhlaluse
explores the intersections of philosophy, fashion, and ethics, tackling the contradictions in our
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
clothing choices and addressing the question, how do we reconcile the desire for self-expression
with the pressing need for sustainability and justice in global supply chains? This essay is part of a
larger work on thinking about an eco-feminist praxis. The article can be accessed here.
September 2024
Assistant Professor of Philosophy Zinhle ka’Nobuhlaluse virtually presented a working draft of a
book chapter titled “The Interlocking Nature of Apartheid Praxis” at a workshop on “Apartheid as
Method for Worldmaking after Empire: Encountering histories, presents, and continuities of
Apartheid in South Africa,” held at the University of the Witwatersrand on September 17. The
workshop aims to provide authors with feedback towards an edited volume on Critical Apartheid
Studies.
January 2024
Visiting Assistant Professor of Philosophy Gwen Daugs presented a paper at the 2024 Eastern
Division meeting of the American Philosophical Association titled “Moral Panic and Gender:
Michel Foucault, Toby Beauchamp, and the Safety of Children.”

--- Page 7 of 11 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
August 2023
Professor of Philosophy Michael Bray published an essay, “Ernesto Laclau and Chantal Mouffe’s
Post-Marxism Can’t Give Us a Political Strategy,” on the Jacobin website. A Spanish translation,
“Laclau, Mouffe y la estrategia política,” was also published on Jacobinlat.com.
July 2023
In July, Assistant Professor of Philosophy Jorge Lizarzaburu presented the paper “An Extended
Evolutionary Account of Human Nature” at the International Society for the History Philosophy
and Social Studies of Biology at the University of Toronto.
May 2023
The following individuals were recently recognized as award recipients for the 2022-23 academic
year. Teaching awards: Visiting Assistant Professor of Chemistry Chelsea Massaro, Assistant
Professor of Philosophy Jorge Lizarzaburu, and Associate Professor of French Francis Mathieu.

--- Page 8 of 11 ---

Assistant Professor of Art Ron Geibel won the Jesse E. Purdy Excellence in Scholarly and Creative
Works Award. The Advising Award went to Associate Professor of Chemistry Michael Gesinski.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
April 2022
Lurlyn and Durwood Fleming Professor of Philosophy Phil Hopkins has completed a second 10-
month contract with the Austin Police Department (APD), this time to develop guidelines and
formal procedures for selecting and reviewing video training material for the Cadet Academy that
focus on recognizing and addressing the ways video material can have unintended consequences
and harms and may reinforce rather than disrupt larger cultural narratives and stereotypes.
Hopkins has written and submitted a final report to APD and the Austin City Council. He remains
under contract for the remainder of this year on the larger curriculum review committee whose
task is to review and develop improved training curricula and content across the several training
regimes for APD. This work was recently featured in a 60 Minutesepisode that noted its innovative
(and largely unprecedented) approach but not the many and various difficulties it faces among
entrenched institutional histories and competing political agendas.
January 2021
Professor of Philosophy Phil Hopkins has completed an eight-month process as part of a
community panel reviewing materials used at the Austin Police Department (APD) Training
Academy. The panel was the longest-serving component of the Austin City Council’s Resolution
66 (December 2019), which initiated an investigation into bias and racism in the APD. The final

--- Page 9 of 11 ---

report has been presented to the community and to the Reimagining Public Safety Task Force and
is being covered by a number of media sources, such as KXAN, whose coverage can be
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
found here.
August 2020
Professor of Philosophy Phil Hopkins was a panelist for “Trauma and Policing: An Abusive
Relationship,” part four of the Austin Justice Coalition conversation series Imagining a World
without Police,on August 5.
July 2020
Professor of Philosophy Phil Hopkins was a panelist in a two-part Zoom town hall meeting on
policing and Arab, Muslim, and Middle Eastern communities. The event was hosted by
Interconnecting Arabs, Muslims, and Middle Easterners (I-AMM) on July 18 and 25.

--- Page 10 of 11 ---

Professor of Philosophy Phil Hopkins is the invited guest on the podcast The Partially Examined
Life for a two-part episode (#248) on policing. He discusses Maurice Merleau-Ponty’s
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Phenomenology of Perception and Linda Alcoff and Alia Al-Saji’s developments of his theory of
perception and prescriptions for disrupting racialized perceptions to try to understand persistent
police violence against people of color and in general. He will also be a panelist on July 15 during
a webinar for the National Association of Social Workers on policing practices, particularly during
the coronavirus pandemic.
June 2020
Professor of Philosophy Michael Bray’s article “The Virus Infects Politics: Six Theses on Social
Reproduction, Biopolitical Economies, and the Legitimacy of States,” appeared online in two parts
in the new journal Spectre. Read it here: Part 1, Part 2.
May 2020
Professor of Philosophy Phil Hopkins was selected to serve as an outside consultant on the
training audit review panel as part of the Austin Police Department (APD) evaluation mandated by
recent Austin City Council Resolution 66, which set up an investigation into bias and bigotry
within the APD.

--- Page 11 of 11 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
GEORGETOWN, TEXAS
512.863.6511
CONTACT