--- Page 1 of 5 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
MAJORS & MINORS
Philosophy
The Philosophy Department atoffers a distinctive,
innovative, and interdisciplinary approach to the study and teaching of
philosophy.
Michael Bray
Professor of Philosophy & Chair
EEMMAAIILL CCAALLLL

--- Page 2 of 5 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Welcome to the Southwestern Philosophy Department.
We provide students with a solid grounding in the history of western philosophy while also
facilitating critical engagement with that history, allowing students to consider the lessons and
strategies the study of philosophy offers for engaging contemporary questions and problems.
Over the past several years, we have undertaken curricular revisions that express our commitment
to a program that fosters rigorous and coherent thinking and writing, while also locating such
thinking within the power relations and differentials that inform, enable, and restrict it. This
commitment is expressed in the multiple disciplinary, social, and cultural intersections our courses
encourage students to explore.
Our particular strengths include intersections with Latin American Studies, Feminist Studies, Race
and Ethnicity Studies, Queer Theory, and Marxist thought, as well as theories of media and political
theory, including the key contemporary relationship between “politics” and “economics.” Of late,
the tendency of philosophy to be a discipline dominated by white men has received fairly

--- Page 3 of 5 ---

widespread attention. Our department works systematically to depart from this tendency, to
actively foster forms and directions of inquiry of interest to a wide range of persons.
AFTER SOUTHWESTERN
Featured Alumni Stories
A History Major in the Nation’s Capital
Lily Rodriguez ’19 conducts archival research while interning at U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services (USCIS) in Washington, DC.
READ FULL STORY
EXPLORE SOUTHWESTERN
 
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors

--- Page 4 of 5 ---

Philosophy News
SSEEEE FFUULLLL LLIISSTT
A–Z Philosophy BlackList (updated for 2026)
First launched in 2025 as part of Black History Month programming, the project has continued to
grow into what is now titled the A–Z Philosophy BlackList, an expanding intellectual archive that
currently features 158 names and counting.
READ FULL STORY
EXPLORE SOUTHWESTERN
Philosophy Events
SSEEEE FFUULLLL LLIISSTT
 
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors

--- Page 5 of 5 ---

Philosophy Group Advising
FIND OUT MORE
 
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
GEORGETOWN, TEXAS
512.863.6511
CONTACT