--- Page 1 of 3 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
HIGH-IMPACT LEARNING EXPERIENCES
Student Research
Our current capstone students are busy working on a number of independent research projects. At
Southwestern, the capstone course for majors, or Colloquium, is conceived as a collaborative
workshop in which each student pursues an independent research project under the guidance of
the philosophy faculty as a whole. Over the course of the semester, all students present their
research as it develops for the class as a whole to critique and assist in developing. The
culminating achievement is a public presentation of a key section of each research paper followed
by the submission of the final thesis.
Kevin Lentz
My capstone will be looking at critical theories regarding the urban phenomenon of gentrification as
it relates to the general economic dynamics of Capitalism. Specifically, it will be exploring how and
in what ways is gentrification both facilitated by and beneficial to the Capitalist mode of production
in general. The texts I will be drawing from are: Uneven Development; Nature, Capital, and the
Production of Space by Neil Smith, Rebel Cities; from the Right to the City to the Urban
Revolution by David Harvey, and The Production of Space by Henri Lefebvre.
Sadie Clarendon
My area of interest is examining women’s presence and experience in the discipline of philosophy,
and why it is difficult for women to overcome patriarchal structures and stereotypes in a discipline
that has a reputation for self-critique and evolution. This means I will try to 1) identify the
structures within the discipline of philosophy that prevent women from having full participation in
the discipline, 2) give examples of some of the repercussions and results of these structures, and 3)
offer some ways to change (and also considering the option to avoid completely) these
structures. Some useful sources that have shaped my thinking on this topic are Women in
Philosophy: What Needs to Change? ed. Katrina Hutchinson and Fiona Jenkins; Singing in the Fire:

--- Page 2 of 3 ---

Stories of Women in Philosophy ed. Linda Martín Alcoff; and Feminism and Philosophy:
PersMpeecntuives oSne Daricfhference and Equality by Moira Gatens. Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Alan Ramos
My capstone project will be concerned with the question of why Western philosophy constitutes
itself in an exclusionary manner. Using philosophy’s earliest definition of “love for wisdom”, I will
explore how that love for wisdom takes an exclusionary form in the West and how we can
potentially open philosophy to other forms of wisdom. In doing so, I will engage primarily with
prominent Latin philosophers, in works such as Enrique Dussell’s Transmodernity, Walter
Mignolo’s Bilanguaging Love, and Subcomandante Marcos’ The Story of Colors.
Joshua Page
I am interested in the relationship between contemporary behavioral genetics and Aristotelian
philosophy. I am looking at Aristotle’s Physics, De Anima, and Nicomachean Ethics in addition to
scientific literature and philosophy of science works by Evelyn Fox Keller. In framing our
understanding of science as a metaphysics and viewing Aristotle’s work as a model in which to view
genetics I hope to develop a more complete understanding of the way in which we engage with our
genome.
Hunter White
My project is an examination of Nietzsche’s Ethics. The purpose of this research is to illuminate the
character of the type of ethics Nietzsche proposed and for which he advocated. To accomplish this
project, I will engage most of his major works, with a focus on:
Beyond Good and Evil
What Nietzsche really said
Twilight of the Idols
The Anti-Christ
Sarah Cook

--- Page 3 of 3 ---

For my capstone, I will be exploring the ways in which American culture’s presentation of terrorism
has Mbeeennu formSeeda rbcyh capitalist ideology. More specifically, I will argue thAatp pmlyassV cisoitmmMoadjoirfisc &at Mioinnors
not only manufactures the “war on terror” concept, but frames and dictates our discussion of
terrorism — either consciously or subconsciously — by positioning it within a consumer-culture
paradigm. I will be using Karl Marx, Roland Barthes, Guy Debord, and Paul Virilio, as well as
political cartoons, news reports, and political speeches from the past 13 years.
GEORGETOWN, TEXAS
512.863.6511
CONTACT