--- Page 1 of 5 ---

southwestern.edu
Transfer Student Application FAQs
The Office of Admission
6–8 minutes
Contact
The Office of Admission
Location
Dorothy Perry White Welcome Center
The Office of Admission
How do I determine whether or not I am a transfer student?
Students who have completed a minimum of 12 credit hours at an
accredited college or university after high school graduation or
GED certification are considered transfer students. Please note:
This excludes dual credit, concurrent enrollment, early college,
and courses taken the summer immediately after high school
graduation.
How many hours must I take in order to transfer?requires a minimum of 12 credit hours to
transfer. The Admission Committee encourages students to be
enrolled in at least 12 hours (full-time) of college coursework the
semester prior to enrolling at Southwestern.
Do you have non-traditional students and veterans?

--- Page 2 of 5 ---

While most Southwestern students are of traditional age and
attend classes full-time, we have a small contingent of non-
traditional students returning after a long absence from school or
attending part-time. We recommend that non-traditional students
apply after completing at least two semesters of full-time work at
another college, with a grade point average of at least 2.5. We also
have an increasing number of students returning after military
service. We have created a page with more information regarding
using your Military Benefits.
What is the maximum number of hours I can transfer?
There is not limit to the number of credits that can be transferred,
however, a student must take at least 64 hours (2 years) and must
complete at least 60% of the chosen major (and/or minor) in
residence in order to earn a degree from.
Most transfer students need a minimum of 5 semesters worth of
coursework to obtain a degree from Southwestern.
Is campus residency required?is a residential learning community, and
on-campus living is an integral part of the student experience. To
support student success, engagement, and connection to campus
life, Southwestern requires students to live in university housing for
their first three years (six semesters) of enrollment.
Certain students, including military veterans and those who are 22
years of age or older, married, or have children, are automatically
exempt from this requirement. Because living on campus is such
an important part of the Southwestern experience, students may
apply for Residency Requirement Exemption only in extraordinary
circumstances. Exemption requests are not guaranteed.

--- Page 3 of 5 ---

Are evening or online courses offered?
At Southwestern, courses are taught primarily during the day,
during working hours. Very few night classes are offered. It is not
possible for an undergraduate student to obtain a degree from
Southwestern solely through the attendance of evening classes.
Southwestern does not offer on-line courses.
How do my courses transfer?
All non-technical/non-vocational courses from accredited colleges,
in which a student has earned a C- or better, are eligible for
transfer to Southwestern. If the course is found comparable to a
course at Southwestern, an appropriate course number will be
assigned in a transcript evaluation by the Records Office.
Southwestern faculty members may be consulted for course
compatibility and the applicant may be asked to submit course
descriptions, syllabi and reading lists to complete the official
transcript review. If a course is accepted for credit, it will be
counted as “transfer credit.” No grade points for transfer courses
will be calculated in thegrade point
average. Remedial/developmental coursework is not accepted.
How do my AP courses or CLEP credits transfer?
In order to obtain credit for advanced placement examinations,
transfer students are required to submit an official score report to
Southwestern from the College Board. A score of 4 or 5 must be
obtained on the AP exam and a 5 or higher on the higher level IB
exams in order to receive credit.
Credits received for CLEP subject examinations while students are
enrolled at other universities are usually treated like other transfer
credits if they appear on official transcripts.

--- Page 4 of 5 ---

May I earn a second degree if I already have a bachelors?
At, a student may obtain a different
degree from the one previously earned (e.g., after earning a
Bachelor of Arts degree, a student may earn a Bachelor of
Science degree). Students must complete at least an additional 64
hours (2 years) in residence for the second
degree. Southwestern’s liberal arts requirements, as well as the
coursework in the new major/minor, will also need to be
completed. Southwestern offers Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of
Science, Bachelor of Fine Arts, Bachelor of Science in Education
and Bachelor of Music degrees.
If I have previously applied, how do I reactivate my application?
If you submitted an application to Southwestern when you were in
high school, you can reactivate that application by filling out and
submitting the Application Reactivation Form below. The following
document are required for a transfer application:
1. The Application Reactivation Form
2. An official final high school transcript
3. Official ACT/SAT exam scores (requirement met if listed on
official high school transcript)
4. Official college transcript(s) from each institution attended
5. The College Conduct Report
How does Southwestern address my academic ineligibility?
Transfer students who are academically ineligible from another
institution are not eligible for admission at.
What do I need to do in order to have my transcript reviewed?

--- Page 5 of 5 ---

If you provide a copy of your college transcript(s), a tentative,
unofficial transcript review can be done with the transfer admission
counselor during an information session. An official transcript
evaluation by the registrar will be completed after the offer of
admission has been sent to the student. This official evaluation will
be sent to the student prior to the time in which the student has to
place an enrollment deposit.
When will I find out about admission (Transfer Students)