--- Page 1 of 7 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
POLITICAL SCIENCE
Courses
Below you will find a list of our current or recent offerings. See the course catalog for descriptions
and updated information.
32-114 American Politics
This course will help you understand the incentives and motivations of actors throughout the
American political system so that you can interpret what you read and hear about American
politics in a more analytical manner. The course serves simultaneously as a civics course that
helps you become a more confident participant in American politics and as an introduction to
the theories and methods used in the study of American politics. (ScS)
32-144 Comparative Politics
An introductory survey of major political systems, representing both Western and non-Western
countries. No single political system will be studied in depth. This course provides the tools for
such study in the future. Contributes to International Studies. (ScS)
32-184 Politics of Latin America & Caribbean
This introduction to contemporary Latin American and Caribbean politics also allows students
with previous knowledge about the region to further their interests. The course is built around
some of the key issues which confront Latin America and the Caribbean. Contributes to
International Studies, Latin American and Border Studies, and Race and Ethnicity
Studies/Allied Course. (ScS) (SJ) (PJ).
32-194 Film, Literature and the Cold War
This course examines how selected Western writers and filmmakers portrayed the Cold War.
This course is open only to first years and sophomores. Juniors and seniors may register with
the permission of the instructor. (ScS)

--- Page 2 of 7 ---

32-204 American Political Thought
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
This course analyzes the promises, prophesies, problems, and practices that have attached to
the concept of America, from the pre-founding era to the twentieth century. We study the
stories and fictions that have shaped a sense of community. We explore the positive and
negative aspects of American exceptionalism, the unique anxieties attached to American
identity, the various conceptions of nature, wilderness, and frontier that formed American
ideals, and the paradoxes and contradictions of democracy in the United States. Contributes to
Legal Studies Certificate. (ScS) (SJ) (PJ)
32-214 Race and Ethnic Politics
This course examines the historical and political experiences of African Americans, American
Indians, Latina/o Americans, and Asian Americans/Pacific Islanders in the United States. We'll
explore how these groups have sought political incorporation and addressed issues like racial
identity, citizenship rights, and inequality in areas such as voting, policing, and housing. The
course will delve into current political debates, including voting rights, affirmative action, and
immigration reform, while drawing upon critical race theory to understand systemic racism.
Prerequisites: Political Science 32-114, Philosophy 18-354, or instructor approval.
Contributes to Environmental Studies, Race and Ethnicity Studies/Group-Theme Course, and
Legal Studies Certificate. (ScS)
32-224 Middle East Politics
A survey of the comparative and international politics of the Middle East, focusing on major
Arab states, Israel and Iran. Contributes to International Studies. (ScS)
32-234 Sex, Power, and Politics
This course investigates how norms of sex and gender are expressed as forms of power to
shape and limit the opportunities, possibilities, and challenges of certain groups. In this course,
we take up the ways in which questions and discourses about sex and gender are employed in
political debates and practice through the study of feminist political theory. We examine these
norms through critical engagement with political events in the United States, using an
intersectional approach to understand how experiences of sex and gender shift across
identities of race, class, and sexuality. Contributes to Feminist Studies. (ScS)
32-264 Political Ideologies

--- Page 3 of 7 ---

An introduction to the systems of ideas, ideals and beliefs through which people view and act
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
in the world. Particular emphasis is placed on the argumentative structure and the political and
psychological functions of ideologies; on their historical origin(s) and development; and on
their respective conceptions of freedom and democracy. This course is open only to first years
and sophomores. Juniors and seniors may register with the permission of the instructor. (ScS)
32-284 Japanese Politics, Culture & Society
This course explores the historical and cultural context of contemporary Japanese politics, the
political institutions of the 1955 system, the policy-making process in post-war Japan, and the
effects of the 1994 political reforms. This course is open only to first years and sophomores.
Juniors and seniors may register with the permission of the instructor. Contributes to East
Asian Studies and International Studies. (ScS)
32-324 Sex and the State
In this course, we will investigate the practice, ethics, and legal implications of sex through its
connection to the law. Over the course of the semester, we look towards three areas where the
state functions to govern sex: sex work, reproductive care, and sexual conduct. To do this, we
will use the law as a primary source for analysis, engaging with both the constitutional law and
political theory that surrounds gender, sex, privacy, and freedom of speech to understand how
the law and the state writ large function to govern sexual practices in the United States today.
Contributes to Feminist Studies and Legal Studies Certificate. Prerequisite: Political Science
32-114 or 32-364, or with permission of instructor. (ScS)
32-344 Texas Legislative Politics Internship
An opportunity to compare political theory and practical politics in a work environment at the
Texas State Capitol, under supervision of department faculty. This class is offered every other
Spring when the Texas legislature is in session and is open to students in good academic and
disciplinary standing with eight credits in Political Science. Internships are generally open to
juniors and seniors. No more than one internship can count toward the major. Prerequisite:
Political Science 32-114 and one additional Political Science course. (ScS)
32-354 Hip Hop and Mass Incarceration
This course examines the historical and political evolution of hip hop music in the United
States, tracing its roots in Black musical expression and its emergence as a response to

--- Page 4 of 7 ---

systemic oppression and mass incarceration. We explore how hip hop reflects and resists the
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
War on Crime and the War on Drugs, addressing issues like the criminalization of Black
communities, police brutality, and mass incarceration. By analyzing music, lyrics, and visual
culture alongside historical and political developments, students will gain a deeper
understanding of the relationship between art, activism, and the mechanisms of racial control.
Contributes to Race and Ethnicity Studies. Students are strongly encouraged to have taken
Political Science 32-214 or Philosophy 18-184. (ScS)
32-364 Introduction to Political Theory
This course introduces students to political theory, through critically analyzing key texts of the
Western canon and practicing the methods of conceptual analysis that shape the subfield. We
analyze ideologies as well as foundational yet essentially contested political concepts -- such as
justice, equality, reason, sovereignty, democracy, consent, obligation, and freedom -- to learn
how power shapes ideas and how politics operates within theories. We critically analyze the
standpoints, assumptions, and exclusions that shape the canon, with attentiveness to identity
and difference. Contributes to Legal Studies Certificate. Prerequisites: Political Science 32-114
or 32-144. (ScS) (WA) (SJ) (PJ)
32-384 International Politics
An introductory study of the theory and practice of international politics. The course examines
both the origins and the consequences of the political organization of the modern world.
Contributes to International Studies. Prerequisite: Political Science 32-114 or 32-144. (WA)
(ScS)
32-394 Research Methods in Political Science
This course will introduce students to basic approaches to research design and analysis in
political science. Over the course of the semester, we will design research topics and
questions, develop empirically testable hypotheses, collect relevant data, and apply basic
qualitative and quantitative data analysis techniques. Topics covered in this course will span all
areas of politics, international relations, and political institutions. Pre-requisites: Political
Science 32-114 or 32-144, or permission of instructor. Contributes to Data Science. (ScS)
32-414 European Politics

--- Page 5 of 7 ---

This course provides an in-depth analysis of the political cultures, structures, processes and
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
policies of selected systems in Europe. In addition, the nature and function of the European
Union is considered. Contributes to International Studies. Prerequisite: Political Science 32-
144. (ScS)
32-444 The Chinese Cultural Revolution
This seminar explores the causes of the Cultural Revolution, the role of Mao and Mao Zedong
thought, the experiences of various groups in society during the Cultural Revolution, and the
effects of the Cultural Revolution on contemporary China. Contributes to East Asian Studies
and International Studies. Prerequisite: Political Science 32-144, or permission of instructor.
(ScS)
32-454 Candidates, Campaigns, & Citizens
This course will explore the behavior of political elites-candidates, consultants, journalists and
others-and citizens in the context of campaigns and elections. We will examine the different
contexts and characteristics that shape individual voting behavior, as well as the strategies and
tactics used by campaigns and candidates in their attempts to win elections. In evaluating
candidate and citizen behavior, we will also consider aggregate patterns of representation and
institutional designs that can help or hurt political engagement. Pre-requisite: Political Science
32-114. (ScS)
32-504 Advanced Topics in Political Science
These are advanced selected topics courses which contribute to the two required 500-600
level courses necessary to take the Senior Seminar (capstone). These may be repeated with a
change in the topic of the course. Prerequisite: Political Science 32-364 or 32-384, or
permission of the instructor. (ScS)
32-544 International Conflict
An exploration of issues concerning the characteristics, causes and justifications of
occurrences of international peace and violence. The focus is primarily on post-Cold War era
state terrorism (internal and external), low intensity conflict, internal conflict resistance,
rebellion and revolution, terrorism and peace. Substantial writing required. Contributes to
International Studies. Prerequisites: Political Science 32-364 or 32-384, or permission of
instructor. (ScS)

--- Page 6 of 7 ---

32-564 Black Politics
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
This course explores the development of African-American politics in the United States. We
begin by examining the intellectual and social responses to systemic racism within the Black
community. Next, we delve into the social movements that challenged racial segregation in the
South, including the legal battles leading to Brown v. Board of Education and the civil rights
protests of the 1950s and 1960s. Finally, we will analyze the transition of African-American
political engagement from protest to electoral politics and explore contemporary issues and
trends. Contributes to Race and Ethnicity Studies/Group-Theme Course. Prerequisite: Political
Science 32-364 or Political Science 32-384, or permission of instructor. (ScS)
32-584 U.S. Foreign Policy
A survey of American foreign policy with particular focus on the Cold War and the post-Cold
War period. Societal, ideological and governmental sources of American foreign policy are
examined. Prerequisite: Political Science 32-364 or 32-384, or permission of instructor. (ScS)
32-624 Germany & Japan: Losers of World War II
This course compares democratic institutions, economic growth, and political culture in Japan
and Germany in the postwar era. It also examines current challenges, including women in
politics, nuclear power, immigration and regional dynamics. Contributes to East Asian Studies
and International Studies. Prerequisite: Political Science 32-364 or 32-384, or permission of
instructor. (ScS)
32-634 Resistance, Rebellion & Revolution
Insurrection and revolution have been among the most transformative events and processes in
history, destroying powerful systems while creating new ideas, values, relations, and
experiences. This course examines both broad conceptual questions about power, collective
action, and agency and structuralism and the specificity of such key moments in different times
and places. There is a substantial research and writing component. Contributes to
International Studies. Prerequisite: Political Science 32-364 or 32-384, or permission of
instructor. (ScS)
32-644 Radical Democracy, Radical Activism
This course uses the archives of the Redstocking Feminists, the Black Panthers, the Students
for a Democratic Society, and ACT UP as a starting point for crafting political theories of

--- Page 7 of 7 ---

democracy. These activist groups were all engaged in the process of trying to make sense of
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
patriarchy, sexism, misogyny, racism, homophobia, and imperialism, while also trying to
imagine and enact alternative futures. By investigating the writings, meeting transcripts,
photographs, and personal artifacts that make up their archives, we will work towards
expanding democratic political theory in addition to learning how archives can ground one's
own political science research. Contributes to Feminist Studies and Legal Studies Certificate.
Prerequisite: Political Science 32-364, or permission of instructor. (ScS)
32-654 Women and Politics in Europe and Asia
A study of women and politics in Europe and Asia from a comparative perspective. Explores
the role ideology, institutions, culture and social movements play in creating opportunities and
constraints for women in the political realm. Contributes to East Asian Studies, Feminist
Studies, and International Studies. Prerequisite: Political Science 32-364 or 32-384, or
permission of instructor. (ScS) (SJ) (PJ)
32-964 Senior Seminar
This course fulfills the capstone requirement for the major. Requires permission of instructor.
GEORGETOWN, TEXAS
512.863.6511
CONTACT