--- Page 1 of 38 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
POLITICAL SCIENCE
Notable Faculty & Student Achievements
March 2026
Professor of Political Science Bob Snyder’s article “Trump’s Foreign Policy Is Not Transactional. It
Is Tributary.” appeared in the online magazine Open Canada, which is published by the Canadian
International Council.
January 2026
Assistant Professor of Political Science Alex Goodwin and co-author Michael J. Nojeim had their
book chapter, “The Prairie View Paradox: Age, Race, and the Evolving/Changing Landscape of
Student Voting Rights at an HBCU in Texas,” published by De Gruyter in the edited volume Youth
Voting Rights: Civil Rights, the Twenty-Sixth Amendment, and the Fight for American Democracy on
College Campuses. The chapter examines the decades-long fight for student voting rights at
Prairie View A&M University, focusing specifically on the Symm v. United States (1979) Supreme
Court case.

--- Page 2 of 38 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Professor of Political Science Alisa Gaunder served as a panel chair for two panels at the
Southern Political Science Association Meeting held in New Orleans, LA from January 15–18. She
chaired the panel “Parties, Leaders, and Candidates” and stepped in as an impromptu discussant
when the scheduled discussant was unable to attend. She also chaired the panel “Comparative
Perspectives on Feminist Movements.”
Professor of Political Science Alisa Gaunder and co-author Dr. Sarah Wiliarty published
“Leadership in Crisis: Comparing Prime Minister Abe’s and Chancellor Merkel’s Response to the
Covid-19 Pandemic” in the interdisciplinary journal Contemporary Japan on December 22. This
article argues that Merkel was more effective in managing the first stage of the Covid-19 crisis
compared to Abe due to new institutions created to coordinate between the local and national
level as well as the execution of a policymaking narrative that focused on science and solidarity.
Abe’s approach was hampered due to long-established structural inefficiencies in the bureaucracy
as well as a policymaking narrative that called for cooperation and self-restraint without
responding to public concerns. This comparison adds to our understanding of the impact of
leaders on public policymaking in times of uncertainty as well as to the important relationship
between leaders and institutions.
December 2025
Assistant Professor of Political Science Alex Goodwin and his co-author Ronald Goodwin had
their book chapter “Comparing American Presidencies: Leadership in the First Hundred Days of
Bush, Obama, Trump, and Biden” published in an edited volume titled America in Crisis:

--- Page 3 of 38 ---

Presidential Power, Populism, and the Global Struggle for Truth published by Springer International
Press.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
August 2025
Professor of Political Science Bob Snyder had his paper “The Myth of Trump’s Transactional
Foreign Policy” accepted for publication in the International Journal. It shows that Trump’s foreign
policy has been more tributary than, as often characterized, transactional.
June 2025
Assistant Professor of Political Science Alex Goodwin and Dr. Tony E. Carey, Jr. published an
article titled “With All Due Respect: Respectability Politics and Black Support for Police Defunding
and Abolition” in Political Behavior. This article examines how respectability politics shapes Black
Americans’ views on policing and support for institutional reforms.

--- Page 4 of 38 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
April 2025
Professor of Political Science Eric Selbin was an invited participant at Harvard University’s David
Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies 30th Anniversary Symposium. Selbin was invited by
the Center’s Director, Rockefeller Professor of Latin American Studies, and Professor of
Government Steven Levitsky to interact with former Chilean President (2006-2010; 2014-2018)
and former United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (2018-2022) Michelle Bachelet
Jeria, former Member of the National Assembly of Venezuela Maria Corina Machado (2011-2014),
and former Mexican President Ernesto Zedillo (1994-2000). It was also an opportunity for Selbin
to reconnect with an old friend, Dora María Téllez, Nicaragua’s famous Comandante Dos, who,
since her 2023 release as a political prisoner, has been the Richard E. Greenleaf Distinguished
Chair in Latin American Studies at Tulane University and is currently the Robert F. Kennedy Visiting
Professor of Latin American Studies at Harvard.
Professor of Political Science Eric Selbin published a chapter titled “International Political
Sociology & Resistance: Whither Revolution” in The Oxford Handbook of International Political
Sociology, edited by Stacie Goddard, George Lawson, and Ole Jacob Sending (Oxford: Oxford
University Press, 2025). This is the third piece in a three-year trilogy calling for a refiguration of
revolution and with these provides the basis for a current book project.
Professor of Political Science Eric Selbin served as the external member on the doctoral
dissertation committee of Katalin Amon, who successfully defended “The Mortgage Debtor, the
Neighbor, the Homeless Citizen, and the Family: Understanding Citizenship and Housing Through
Citizen Imaginaries” at Central European University in Vienna. Selbin is also currently serving as an

--- Page 5 of 38 ---

external member on dissertation committees at the University of Cambridge and the University of
Virginia.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Senior Aidan Gomez ’25 presented a poster titled “The Rules of Quotas Matter: Female
Representation in the Italian and Japanese Legislatures” at the ASIANetwork Conference in San
Antonio on March 29. The poster emerged from a paper written in Professor of Political Science
and Vice President for Academic Affairs Alisa Gaunder’s Women in Politics in Europe and Asia
course.
February 2025
Assistant Professors of Sociology Adriana Ponce and Amanda Hernandez, Assistant Professor of
Political Science Alexander Goodwin, Assistant Professor of History Bryan Kauma, and Assistant
Professor of English Sonia Del Hierro published “Teaching with Color: Thematic Hires and the
Politics of Teaching in Texas,” in the journal Sociology of Race and Ethnicity. This article joins a
growing conversation in the humanities and humanistic social sciences on ways faculty of color
shoulder the burden of thinking about our shared futures as racialized, intersectional, and
collaborative. You can find the article here.

--- Page 6 of 38 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
January 2025
Professor of Political Science and Vice President for Academic Affairs Alisa Gaunder presented a
paper titled “The Japanese Gender Parity Law: Why Symbolic Legislation Passes and How It Faces
Resistance” at the Southern Political Science Association Meeting on January 9.
October 2024
On October 18-19, Professor of Political Science Eric Selbin, one of the founding members of the
Resistance Studies Network, presented a chapter in progress at the 20th Anniversary meeting of
the Resistance Studies Network at the University of Göteborg, titled “Why do We Say “Resistance”
When We Mean Struggle? An Entangled Anarchival Approach.”
On October 16, Professor of Political Science Eric Selbin presented a pedagogical chapter in
progress at Umeå University’s Department of Political Science Pedagogy and Practice Seminar,
“everythingisconnectedtoeverything: People as the Makers of His/Her/Theirstory and
his/her/theirstory.”

--- Page 7 of 38 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Professor of Political Science Eric Selbin attended the Living Democracy Symposium at the
University of Maryland on October 10 and participated in the Decentering Whiteness Workshop,
inspired in part by his co-authored book with Meghana Nayak ’97, Decentering International
Relations.
September 2024
Vice President for Academic Affairs and Professor of Political Science Alisa Gaunder gave a virtual
talk titled “Women in Executive Office: Constraints and Opportunities for Success” to students at
Centro Universitario Anglo Mexicano (CUAM), a preparatory high school in Mexico, on September
11.
August 2024
Professor of Political Science Bob Snyder presented his paper “The US and Iran: Understanding
the Breakdown in Relations” at the International Studies Association’s conference at the University
of Rijeka in Rijeka, Croatia in June.

--- Page 8 of 38 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Assistant Professor of Sociology Amanda Hernandez, Assistant Professor of Sociology Adriana
Ponce, Assistant Professor of Political Science Alexander Goodwin, Assistant Professor of
History Bryan Kauma, and Assistant Professor of English Sonia Del Hierro had their abstract
“Teaching With Color: Thematic Hires and the Politics of Teaching in Texas” accepted as a special
feature for the 10 Year Reflection Special Issue on pedagogy and hope in the Journal for the
Sociology of Race & Ethnicity. The article will be both a pedagogical reflection on hope in the
classroom and on thematic hires. The issue will be available in early 2025.
July 2024
Former Visiting Assistant Professor of Political Science Katie Aha, Catherine Hiebel ’22,
and Linsey Jensen ’23 co-authored an article, titled “Turning to the Radical Right: Examining
Subnational Variation in Radical Right Support after Ethnic Minority Success in East Central
Europe,” which has been accepted for publication in Electoral Studies. This article started as a
2021 SCOPE project. Jensen is currently in a dual M.A./M.Sc. program, recently completing a M.A.
in European History, Politics, and Society at Columbia University, and starting a M.Sc. in Culture
and Conflict in a Global Europe at the London School of Economics in the fall. Hiebel will be
starting a M.Sc. in International Politics at Trinity College Dublin in the fall.
Sierra Rupp ’23 had her Senior Seminar paper, “From Fields to Frontlines: The Relationship
Between Drug Trafficking & Armed Conflict,” directed by former Associate Professor of Political
Science Emily Sydnor, published in The Pi Sigma Alpha Undergraduate Journal of Politics. Rupp is
currently in Kyrgyzstan on a Critical Language Scholarship for Russian and this fall will be on a

--- Page 9 of 38 ---

Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship in Spain. Her generous acknowledgements recognize the
role of the political science department in general and her various professors in this process. You
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
can find the article here.
Assistant Professor of Political Science Alexander Goodwin was the keynote speaker for the
Georgetown Juneteenth Celebration on June 15. This was the 72nd Annual Celebration of
Juneteenth in Georgetown sponsored by the Georgetown Cultural Citizen Memorial Association
(GCCMA). Juneteenth is a recognition and celebration of June 19, 1865 as the day that the
enslaved people in Texas were informed that the Emancipation Proclamation had been signed on
January 1, 1863 to free them from slavery. On June 17, 2021, President Joe Biden signed a bill into
law making Juneteenth a national holiday.
April 2024
Recent political science grad and newly elected Phi Beta Kappa member Sierra Rupp ’23 has
earned one of the State Department’s prestigious Critical Language Scholarships to study Russian
this summer in Kyrgyzstan. Sierra is also one of SU’s two winners of the State Department’s 2024-
2025 Fulbright U.S. Student Program fellowship for an English Teaching Assistantship to Spain.
Previously, she was also the winner of a CLS Spark award for Summer 2024 to study beginning
Russian. Congratulations to Sierra for such outstanding accomplishments!

--- Page 10 of 38 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Visiting Assistant Professor of Political Science Katie Aha presented a paper at the Midwest
Political Science Association Annual Conference, held from April 4-7 in Chicago. The paper,
“Gestational Surrogacy and Party Politics in Europe,” was part of a panel on “European Political
Parties.” She also served as a discussant for a panel on “European Executive and Parliamentary
Politics.”
Associate Professor of Political Science Emily Sydnor, Gerald Jones ’25, and Adrian Gonzalez ’25
presented their collaborative project, “Unraveling State Identity in the United States,” at the
Midwest Political Science Association’s Annual Meeting April 3-5 in Chicago, IL. They were joined
at the conference by SU alumna Alesha Lewis ’21, a current PhD student at the University of
Illinois Urbana-Champaign, who presented her first-year graduate paper “Does Racial Trauma
Influence Political Behavior in Marginalized People?”
March 2024
Associate Professor of Political Science Emily Sydnor and former Senior Director of Integrative
Learning Sarah Brackmann recently published a piece in Inside Higher Ed Jobs about how to
engage in nonpartisan voter engagement efforts in today’s polarized political climate. They were
invited to write the piece based on their presentation on the SU Votes coalition’s strategies for
increasing voter registration and engagement at the AAC&U conference in January 2023. It can be
found here.

--- Page 11 of 38 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
January 2024
Professor of Political Science Eric Selbin presented a paper at the most recent International
Studies Association-Global South Caucus Conference in Bangkok entitled “Global South Stories of
IR: An Entangled Anarchival Prosopographic Approach.” He also served as Chair for a panel titled
Exploring Synergies: Revealing the Dynamics and Impact of South-South Cooperation.
Visiting Assistant Professor of Political Science Katie Aha attended the Southern Political Science
Association Annual Conference in New Orleans. Her paper with Linsey Jensen ’23, “Patterns of
Radical Right Support in Czechoslovakia’s Successor States,” was part of a panel titled Left, Right,
and Center, and she also served as chair and discussant for the panel European Political
Institutions.
November 2023
Associate Professor of Political Science Emily Sydnor and her co-author, Lauren Santoro of the
University of Texas at Dallas, published their article “Blind Trust, Blind Skepticism: Liberals’ &
Conservatives’ Response to Academic Research” in American Politics Research. The article shows
that individuals make assumptions about the ideological position of different major U.S.

--- Page 12 of 38 ---

universities, and their likelihood of believing political (or politicized) research produced at those
universities is dependent on whether their own ideological positions “match” those of the
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
institution.
Professor of Political Science Bob Snyder had his paper titled “Realist or Just Anti-Liberal?
Trump’s Foreign Policy in Retrospect” accepted for publication in the journal International Journal.
It demonstrates that the Trump administration’s foreign policy of retrenchment was motivated
less by the purported goal of reducing costs than by the desire to weaken liberal international
practices, which had similar domestic ramifications.
October 2023
Professor of Political Science Eric Selbin presented a paper entitled “The Grenadian Revolution:
The Paris Commune of the West Indies” at a conference, “Grenada, 1973-1983: Beginnings of a
Revolution, Invasion and After.” The Eccles Centre for American Studies at the British Library
convened the conference on the 40th anniversary of the United States invasion of Grenada and
the destruction of the Grenadian Revolution.

--- Page 13 of 38 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
August 2023
Associate Professor of Political Science Emily Sydnor and her coauthor, Emily Pears (Associate
Professor, Claremont McKenna College), received the 2023 John Kincaid Best Article Award from
the Federalism and Intergovernmental Relations Section of the American Political Science
Association for their article “The Correlates and Characteristics of American State Identity.” They
are currently extending the arguments made in the article into a book-length manuscript.
Professor of Political Science Eric Selbin’s chapter “Revolution” was published in Mlada
Bukovansky et al., eds. The Oxford Handbook on History and International Relations Oxford
University Press. This is the middle of three pieces (the first came out last year, and the next is due
out next spring) where Selbin is trying to resituate revolution in some sort of modernist
formulation fundamentally predicated on the marriage of macro-, even meta-level thinking—how
can we change the world—with a profoundly micro approach: the granularity of actions people
take to change their world. This essay considers how and where current academic thinking about
revolution might be situated and where, if anywhere, it might be going, and recasts it as an
entangled, figurative zone of awkward engagement(s) both (deeply) ingrained in a (still) useful
‘generational’ analysis as well as how our analyses might be evolving outside of that or beyond
definitions at all.
July 2023

--- Page 14 of 38 ---

Professor of Political Science Bob Snyder presented “The Fall of Afghanistan: An American
Tragedy” at the International Studies Association’s conference at Al Akhawayn University in Ifrane,
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Morocco, in June.
Visiting Assistant Professor of Political Science Katie Aha presented on “Gestational Surrogacy
and Party Politics in Europe” at the Southern Political Science Association Summer Conference in
June.
May 2023
Dean of the Faculty and Professor of Political Science Alisa Gaunder published a book review of
Women and Political Inequality in Japan: Gender Imbalanced Democracy by Mikiko Eto in Social
Science Japan Journal, 2023.
Associate Professor of Political Science Emily Sydnor and her 2022 SCOPE students, Andrew
Parker ’23, Adelaide Armen ’24, and Abigail Skelton ’25, presented their paper, “The Effects of
Protest Coverage on American Attitudes,” at the Midwest Political Science Association’s annual
meeting in Chicago, Illinois. Sydnor also presented her paper, “50 Nifty United States?
Understanding Variation in State Identity Across America,” which is co-authored with Emily Pears

--- Page 15 of 38 ---

(Claremont McKenna College) and served as a panel chair. Political science student Megan Kelly
’23 presented her honors project, “Effects of Defense Mechanisms on Contentious Political
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Discussions,” as part of an undergraduate poster session at the conference.
April 2023
Professor of Political Science Eric Selbin’s chapter “El Che: The (Im)possibilities of a Political
Symbol” was published in Benjamin Abrams and Peter Gardner, eds. 2023. Symbolic Objects in
Contentious Politics. Ann Arbor: the University of Michigan Press. Dedicated to our late colleague
Professor of History Daniel Castro (¡presente!), this chapter recognizes that “writing about Che ‘is
like dancing about architecture,’ a nearly senseless, even absurd exercise” even as he is “a
remarkably universal symbol, he—or his spirit or incarnation—…’ the inescapable symbol of
everything that dreamers think a revolutionary should be” (Donovan 2020). Those in need of sleep
can find the chapter here.
Professor of Political Science and Dean of the Faculty Alisa Gaunder published the second edition
of her book Japanese Government and Politics with Routledge in February 2023. The second
edition includes new information on party realignment, elections since 2017, the effects of the
global pandemic, and Japanese foreign policy.

--- Page 16 of 38 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
March 2023
Professor of Biochemistry and Garey Chair of Chemistry Maha Zewail-Foote, Cargill Endowed
Associate Professor of Education Alicia Moore, and Professor of Political Science Alisa
Gaunder co-presented a virtual session for the Association for American Colleges and Universities
(AAC&U) 2023 Conference on Diversity, Equity and Student Success. The mission of the AAC&U
conference was to explore the complexities of truth within higher education while examining
institutional structures and beliefs that impede diversity, equity, and inclusion goals. The
presentation, titled “Cross-Institutional CONNECTions: Mentorship, Truth, Belonging, and
Retention,” provided an overview of Southwestern’s ACS-funded FOC CONNECT project, which
seeks to dismantle barriers to success experienced by early-career faculty of color (FOC) in the
academy. The project supports a cross-institutional faculty mentoring program that connects
these scholars with senior faculty of color from other ACS institutions.
Feburary 2023
Associate Professor of Political Science Emily Sydnor and Sr. Director of Integrative and
Community-Engaged Learning Sarah Brackmann co-presented at AACU’s Annual Meeting. Their
presentation, “Building a Campus-Wide Integrated Voter Engagement Effort,” highlighted
Southwestern’s success in building and institutionalizing a voter registration, education, and
engagement program that spans the student experience.

--- Page 17 of 38 ---

Dean of the Faculty and Professor of Political Science Alisa Gaunder participated on a panel titled
“Fostering Diversity, Equity and Inclusion in Faculty Evaluation Processes” at the 2023 American
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Association of Colleges and Universities (AAC&U) annual meeting in San Francisco, CA, January
18-20, 2023. The panel included deans and faculty development and assessment professionals
from Furman, Rhodes, Rollins, and Southwestern who shared how the Associated Colleges of the
South (ACS) addressed the following challenge: how do we honor the complexity of faculty work,
the principles of DEI, and the distinctiveness of institutional context while implementing faculty
evaluation processes that are, on the one hand, robust, rigorous, and systematic, and on the
other, holistic, developmental, and fair? The ACS tackled this challenge through an Arthur Vining
Davis grant devoted to improving faculty evaluation processes to, among other things, mitigate
bias in student evaluations of teaching, adopt multiple measures of teaching, and assess faculty
workloads for equity. The panel shared key lessons learned from developing a faculty
evaluation toolkit and some of the strongest resources that support more holistic, authentic,
transparent, and equitable faculty evaluation.
December 2022
Professor of Spanish Katy Ross, Visiting Assistant Professor of Political Science Katie Aha, and
Catherine Hiebel ’22 published an article in Women’s Studies: An Interdisciplinary Journal. Their
article, “Populism and Surrogacy in Spain,” can be found here.
Professor of Political Science Bob Snyder had his paper titled “An American Tragedy: The Fall of
Afghanistan” accepted for publication in the journal Small Wars & Insurgencies.

--- Page 18 of 38 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
November 2022
Dean of the Faculty and Professor of Political Science Alisa Gaunder and her co-author Karine
Moe published the lead essay “So You are Going to Be a New CAO: Strategies for Success” in the
fall edition of The ACAD Leader sponsored by the American Council of Academic Deans.
September 2022
Associate Professor of Political Science Emily Sydnor, Emily Tesmer ’20, and Breely Peterson ’20
published an article titled “Confronting Politics: The Role of Conflict Orientation in Shaping
Political Debate” in the Journal of Deliberative Democracy.
Associate Professor of Political Science Emily Sydnor presented her work “Uncivil Boundaries:
Contesting the Civility of Protestors and Political Elites” at the 2022 American Political Science
Association Annual Meeting & Exhibition, held September 15–18 in Montreal, Canada. She also
served as a panel chair and discussant for several papers on incivility in American politics and
presented the best dissertation award.

--- Page 19 of 38 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
July 2022
Professor of Political Science Eric Selbin participated in a conference titled “Critical Margins.
Politicizing the Crisis” sponsored by the European Sociological Association Research Network 25
on Social Movements, the European Consortium for Political Research Standing Group on
Participation and Mobilization, the University of Trento Department of Sociology and Social
Research, and the University of Trento Research Group on Collective Action, Change, and
Transition. Selbin presented a paper titled “Revolution as Idea and Practice Today,” chaired a
session titled “Reactions to Collective Actions,” and served as a discussant for the panel
“Constructing and Displaying Collective Identities.” The conference was held June 15–17 in Trento,
Italy.
Visiting Assistant Professor of Political Science Katharine Aha presented a paper titled “Diverse
Yet Durable? Interethnic Coalitions and Government Formation” as part of a panel on government
formation, stability, and responsiveness at the 2022 European Political Science Association Annual
Conference, held June 23–25 in Prague, Czech Republic. She also served as chair and discussant
for a panel on party competition and the environment.
Professor of Political Science and Dean of the Faculty Alisa Gaunder presented a paper titled
“Leadership in Crisis: Comparing Prime Minister Abe’s and Chancellor Merkel’s Response to the
COVID-19 Pandemic” with coauthor Sarah Wiliarty of Wesleyan University at the 28th
International Conference of Europeanists, held June 29–July 1 in Lisbon, Portugal.

--- Page 20 of 38 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
June 2022
Professor of Political Science Eric Selbin published the chapter “All Around the World:
Revolutionary Potential in the Age of Authoritarian Revanchism” in Handbook of Revolutions in the
21st Century: The New Waves of Revolutions, and the Causes and Effects of Disruptive Political
Change, edited by Jack A. Goldstone, Leonid Grinin, and Andrey Korotayev (Springer). Selbin was
also an invited participant in a roundtable titled “Ideology and Authoritarian Resilience in the
Global South” at the 2022 Canadian Political Science Association Annual Conference, held virtually
May 30–June 3.
May 2022
Professor of Political Science Shannon Mariotti gave an invited lecture at Texas Christian
University on April 13. Her talk drew from her recently completed book manuscript
titled Contemplative Democracy: Embodied Social Change as Ordinary Political Theory, currently
under review with Oxford University Press.

--- Page 21 of 38 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
April 2022
Assistant Professor of Political Science Emily Sydnor, Rachel Berger ’23, and Alaina Dixon ’24
presented their faculty-student project “Destructive or Democratic? Perceptions of Civility and
Protest Attitudes” at the Midwest Political Science Association Annual Conference, held April 7–10
in Chicago. They were joined at the conference by Antonio Esparza ‘22, who presented his
research “Climate-Fueled Authoritarianism in Southeast Asia: A Comparative Case Study of the
Philippines, Vietnam, and Thailand.” Esparza’s work, which he developed under the supervision of
Professor of Political Science Bob Snyder, was part of the undergraduate poster session titled
“Politics in a Time of Crisis: COVID-19 and Climate Change.”
March 2022
Professor of Spanish Katy Ross, visiting Assistant Professor of Political Science Katie
Aha, and Catherine Hiebel ’22 presented a panel titled “Populism and Surrogacy in Spain” at the
XXIX Congreso Internacional de Literatura y Estudios Hispánicos, held March 8–10 in San Juan,
Puerto Rico. Ross presented “Surrogacy in Spain: the Bioethical and Feminist concerns”; Aha
presented “Populism and Surrogacy”; and Hiebel presented “Spanish Populist Parties and Their
Positions on Surrogacy.” The three were told that their presentation was the most coherent and
organized panel the audience heard.

--- Page 22 of 38 ---

Professor of Political Science Shannon Mariotti co-organized a fourth annual mini-conference as
part of her work cochairing the Western Political Science Association’s Embodied Social Change
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
and Healing Justice virtual community. This year, the mini-conference took place virtually on
March 11 and featured roundtables and author-meets-respondents panels for three books: Farah
Godrej’s Freedom Inside? Yoga and Meditation in the Carceral State, Rima Vesely-Flad’s Black
Buddhists and the Black Radical Tradition: The Practice of Stillness in the Movement for Liberation,
and Sokthan Yeng’s Buddhist Feminism: Transforming Anger Against Patriarchy. Mariotti also
cochaired the final roundtable where an interdisciplinary community of academics and
practitioners discussed connections between these three recent books.
November 2021
Assistant Professor of Political Science Emily Sydnor and Senior Director of Integrative and
Community-Engaged Learning Sarah Brackmann are thrilled to share that the 2020 National
Study of Learning, Voting, and Engagement reports, which present national voter turnout data for
students at colleges and universities as well as specific data for member schools, have been
released.
The 2020 voting rate on SU’s campus was 70.8%–higher than the national average (66%) and a
20% increase over our voting rate in the 2016 presidential election (50%). These successes
wouldn’t be possible without the efforts of several SU students. Eugenia Agobe ’23, alex bell
‘21, Erica Burley ’22, Antonio Esparza’22, Anna Franklin ’22, Emily Gilby ’21, Alesha
Lewis ’21, Juan Mojica ’22, Maureen Rendon ’21, Rachel Thompson ’23, and Josh
Tenorio ’23 worked to register and turn out their classmates in spite of the pandemic and ever-
changing Texas voting laws.

--- Page 23 of 38 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
October 2021was well represented at the 11th Race, Ethnicity, and Place Conference,
held October 20–23 in Baltimore, Maryland. The SU Racial History Project presented a panel
featuring research from both 2020 and 2021 SCOPE projects. The panel included:
Professor of Anthropology Melissa Johnson: “The Southwestern Racial History
Project: An Overview”
Kristine Velez ’22 (Anthropology): “McKenzie College: A Plantation on the Edge of
Indigenous Territory”
Saul Zuniga ’22 (History): “Soule University, Slavery, and the Confederacy”
Juan Mojica ’22 (Anthropology): “Hispanics, Methodism, and the Reproduction of
Whiteness”
Rini Mannankara ’22 (Political Science and Anthropology): “The Presence and
Representation of Blackness in the 1960s and 1970s at”
In addition, SU alumna Esther S. Ramos-Garcia ’19 (Latin American and Border Studies), who is
currently a graduate student at the University of Texas in the Teresa Lozano Long Institute of Latin
American Studies program, presented “Accompanando Ninos Migrantes ‘No Accompanados’: A
Feminist Geopolitical Perspective on Central American Unaccompanied Minors in U.S. Long-Term
Foster Care (LTFC)” as part of a panel titled “Asylum in Crisis.”
Professor of Political Science Bob Snyder’s paper titled “Ideology and Global Conflicts:
Revolutionary Actors and Their Opposition to Liberalism” was published in the journal Studies in
Conflict & Terrorism.

--- Page 24 of 38 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
August 2021
Assistant Professor of Political Science Emily Sydnor published “Empowering and Engaging
Students through Civically Engaged Research” in the journal PS: Political Science and Politics. The
article, in which Sydnor argues that students gain valuable democratic skills from conducting
research in conjunction with community partners, was coauthored with colleagues at Houston
Community College and Queens College of Charlotte who have implemented civically engaged
research projects in their classes. It is also part of a symposium in PSthat is the result of the
American Political Science Association’s newly launched Institute for Civically Engaged Research.
June 2021
Assistant Professor of Political Science Emily Sydnor, Senior Director of Integrative &
Community-Engaged Learning Sarah Brackmann, and students Antonio Esparza ’22
and Eugenia Gabrielle Agobe ’23 presented at the 2021 Civic Learning and Democratic
Engagement Meeting. During their session, titled “Developing Skills and Breaking Down Barriers
to Voter Engagement: Lessons Learned from the 2020 Election,” the group offered insights into
their experiences encouraging student engagement through SU Votes in the lead-up to the 2020
election as well their goals for keeping the momentum going in 2021 and 2022.

--- Page 25 of 38 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
May 2021
Professor of Political Science Eric Selbin was invited to write a blog post for a forum inspired by
George Lawson’s recent book, Anatomies of Revolution (2020). The Progress in Political Economy
blog is hosted by the Department of Political Economy at the University of Sydney. Political
economy is a rather storied field, perhaps most commonly associated with Adam Smith, David
Ricardo, Karl Marx, and Max Weber in an era before the social sciences fragmented into fields
such as politics, sociology, and economics. Selbin’s first attempt at a professional blogpost went
predictably awry, with a grammatical error and his usual mishmash of words. C’est la vie or la
guerre or somesuch; Mary Tyler Moore has a cameo. Those inclined may consider themselves
warned and find it here.
Dean of the Faculty and Professor of Political Science Alisa Gaunder published an essay titled
“Potential Positive Legacies of the Global Pandemic” in the April 2021 issue of the ACAD Leader, a
publication produced by the American Conference of Academic Deans (ACAD). The idea for the
essay was sparked by a discussion in Gaunder’s Women and Politics class in fall 2020 and further
informed by a roundtable discussion Gaunder led at the ACAD conference in January 2021.
Professor of Political Science Eric Selbin, a faculty associate at Observatorio de la Relación
Binacional México–Estados Unidos, Faculty of Political and Social Sciences of La Universidad
Nacional Autónoma de México, was part of a roundtable discussion “Entre las Promesas y las
Acciones: Los 100 Días de Joseph Biden en la Casa Blanca.” Selbin was specifically asked to
address the topic “America’s Society: Fall and Revindication.” This event was organized by La
Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, La UNAM-Los Ángeles, and La Programa de Estudios
de América del Norte de la Universidad Veracruzana.

--- Page 26 of 38 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
April 2021
Assistant Professor of Political Science Emily Sydnor was a panelist, presenter, chair, and
discussant for several sessions at the (virtual) Midwest Political Science Association Annual
Meeting. The highlights included presenting her work on students’ physiological reactions to
controversial speech on campus, a collaborative project with Emily Tesmer ’20 and Associate
Professor of Psychology Erin Crockett ’05, and participating in a roundtable on “Polarization,
Animosity, and Violence in American Politics.” Senior political science major Emily Gilby ’21 also
presented her honors thesis, “Institutional Barriers to Youth Voter Turnout,” at the conference.
Professor of Political Science Eric Selbin has been reappointed to the scientific advisory board for
a major international initiative on revolutionary mass mobilizations. The initiative is based in
Sweden (University of Gothenburg) and the U.S. (University of Massachusetts, Amherst) under the
auspices of the Resistance Studies Network, the Nonviolence and Peace Movements Commission
of the International Peace Research Association, and the Nordic Nonviolence Study Group.
At last week’s annual meeting of the International Studies Association (ISA), Professor of Political
Science Eric Selbin served as chair and discussant for the panel “The Evolution of Revolution,”

--- Page 27 of 38 ---

was a panelist on a roundtable on “Anatomies of Revolution,” and, at the request of the ISA’s
Committee on Professional Development, was honored to cochair a roundtable for young
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
scholars on encountering and countering privilege (in an array of senses) in academia titled
“(En)countering Privilege in Academia.”
Professor of Political Science Shannon Mariotti was invited to present a paper at a roundtable at
the recent virtual meeting of the Western Political Science Association conference. The panel was
titled “WPSA’s Experiment with Virtual Communities: Successes, Failings, and Future Prospects,”
and the participants spoke about their experiences chairing virtual communities over the past
year. Mariotti cochairs the virtual community on Embodied Social Change and Healing Justice.
Other panelists spoke about their work with virtual communities in other areas of study that have
tended to be marginalized in mainstream political science, such as planetary justice, critical
disability studies, critical whiteness studies, decolonizing political science, and inclusive teaching
and pedagogy. You can read more about all the virtual communities here, and you can read about
the Embodied Social Change and Healing Justice community here. The good news: at this
meeting, we also learned that the WPSA executive council decided to make the virtual
communities a permanent, staffed, and funded part of the association.
Dean of the Faculty and Professor of Political Science Alisa Gaunder received a book contract for
the second edition of Japanese Politics and Government (Routledge, 2017). The second edition
will address recent developments in Japanese politics, especially related to the global pandemic,
domestic political party realignment, the legacies of Prime Minister Abe’s long tenure in office,
and the changing dynamics of Japan’s foreign relations. The manuscript is scheduled for delivery
to the press in summer 2022.

--- Page 28 of 38 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
March 2021
Assistant Professor of Political Science Emily Sydnor and SU alumna Madison Flores ’20,
Megan Nair ’20, and Meredith Rasmussen ’19 recently published a chapter titled “Civility
through the Comparative Lens: Challenges and Achievements” in the book Political Incivility in the
Parliamentary, Electoral, and Media Arena (Routledge, 2021). The authors particularly enjoyed
learning about what counts as civil and uncivil behavior in other countries; for example, Taiwanese
parliamentarians see brawls and throwing chairs at each other as acceptable ways to show their
constituents they are (literally) fighting for their cause.
Professor of Political Science Eric Selbin was invited by the Manchester, UK–based Rethink
Rebuild Society to speak on the 10th anniversary of the Syrian Revolution. The invitation grew out
of a book group which read the Arabic edition of Selbin’s book Revolution, Rebellion, and
Resistance: The Power of a Story ( ﺔﻳﺎﻜﺤﻟا ةﻮﻗ :ﺔﻣوﺎﻘﻤﻟاو دﺮﻤﺘﻟاو ةرﻮﺜﻟا ). Over 700 people from
around the world attended on Zoom and Facebook Live, and it has since been viewed by several
hundred more people. The Rethink Rebuild Society is primarily focused on Great Britain’s Syrian
exile community and provides assistance and support to improve lives; promote the aspirations of
refugees, asylum seekers, and immigrants in the UK; and raise awareness on issues related to
refugees and other immigrants within the UK through policy and media work. The talk, “
Revolution in the Real World ,” is available on Facebook. It begins at about the 12-minute mark,
runs for 30 minutes, and is followed by about an hour of Q&A.

--- Page 29 of 38 ---

Assistant Professor of Political Science Emily Sydnor gave a talk as part of American University’s
Government Department Speaker Series on March 12, 2021. The lecture focused on Americans’
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
identification with their states (for example, how Texan do you feel?), the factors that influence
people to hold stronger state identities, and the impact of this identification on trust in state
government.
Professor of Political Science Shannon Mariotti was invited to review Thomas Dumm’s recent
Home In America: On Loss and Retrieval (Harvard University Press, 2019). Theorizing the spaces
and places of “home,” Dumm explores environmental apocalypse and the Anthropocene, slavery
and racial injustice, settler colonialism, mass incarceration, and the ideology of the patriarchal
family. Mariotti turned the book review into an article-length essay that explores how these
meditations on home in the “before times” have changed in the “after times” of the coronavirus
pandemic. Her essay focuses on how the pandemic has newly illuminated a long-standing crisis of
caretaking and spotlighted the undervalued work of social reproduction that is still primarily the
work of women in ways that are raced and classed, giving dramatically different meanings to what
it means to be “at home” in this country. Her essay is forthcoming in the journal American Political
Thought .
Feburary 2021
Professor of Political Science Shannon Mariotti was invited to review Thomas Dumm’s recent
Home In America: On Loss and Retrieval (Harvard University Press, 2019). Theorizing the spaces
and places of “home,” Dumm explores environmental apocalypse and the Anthropocene, slavery
and racial injustice, settler colonialism, mass incarceration, and the ideology of the patriarchal
family. Mariotti turned the book review into an article-length essay that explores how these

--- Page 30 of 38 ---

meditations on home in the “before times” have changed in the “after times” of the coronavirus
pandemic. Her essay focuses on how the pandemic has newly illuminated a long-standing crisis of
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
caretaking and spotlighted the undervalued work of social reproduction that is still primarily the
work of women in ways that are raced and classed, giving dramatically different meanings to what
it means to be “at home” in this country. Her essay is forthcoming in the journal American Political
Thought .
January 2021
Dean of the Faculty and Professor of Political Science Alisa Gaunder led a roundtable titled
“Some Potential Positive Effects of the Global Pandemic on Higher Ed” at the annual Dean’s
Institute sponsored by the American Conference of Academic Deans on January 20, 2021. The
discussion highlighted how some recent responses to the pandemic, including new ways of
community building, a renewed commitment to student learning, and the value of incorporating
technology, are likely to have a lasting impact on higher education.
Professor of Political Science Shannon Mariotti was invited to participate in a roundtable on the
theme of “Embodying Your Curriculum,” on January 8, 2021. The panel explored how embodied
and trauma-informed practices can be useful in the classroom, even (especially?) for distance
learning, in an era marked by pandemic, protests, and political crisis.

--- Page 31 of 38 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
December 2020
Assistant Professor of Political Science Emily Sydnor has shared her expertise in American
political behavior through a wide range of outlets in the past few weeks, including a pre-election
interview with KUT and postelection discussions with Bloomberg News and the Georgetown
edition of Community Impact. She was also a contributor to U.S. Election Analysis 2020, a report
capturing the immediate thoughts, reflections, and early insights on the 2020 presidential election
by more than 115 leading U.S. and international academics. In her entry, Sydnor discussed the
narratives of civility and incivility throughout the presidential campaign and argued that Biden’s
call for a return to civility may gloss over real systemic and nationwide concerns. Sydnor also
published a post on the American Political Science Association’s RAISE the Vote site, a blog
dedicated to amplifying and increasing students’ civic engagement and voting. The post outlined
Southwestern’s university-wide collaboration around voter education and turnout, as well as our
on-campus polling place, as an example for other schools who are also interested in increasing
their student engagement.
November 2020
Assistant Professor of Political Science Emily Sydnor has shared her expertise in American
political behavior through a wide range of outlets in the past few weeks, including a pre-election
interview with KUT and postelection discussions with Bloomberg News and the Georgetown
edition of Community Impact. She was also a contributor to U.S. Election Analysis 2020, a report
capturing the immediate thoughts, reflections, and early insights on the 2020 presidential election
by more than 115 leading U.S. and international academics. In her entry, Sydnor discussed the
narratives of civility and incivility throughout the presidential campaign and argued that Biden’s
call for a return to civility may gloss over real systemic and nationwide concerns. Sydnor also
published a post on the American Political Science Association’s RAISE the Vote site, a blog
dedicated to amplifying and increasing students’ civic engagement and voting. The post outlined

--- Page 32 of 38 ---

Southwestern’s university-wide collaboration around voter education and turnout, as well as our
on-campus polling place, as an example for other schools who are also interested in increasing
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
their student engagement.
September 2020
Assistant Professor of Political Science Emily Sydnor and political science majors Maureen
Rendon ’21 and Sarah Bowen ’22 presented “Uncivil Boundaries: Contesting the Civility of
Protestors and Movements on Instagram” at the American Political Science Association (APSA)
Political Communication Preconference on September 8. The presentation was based on work
conducted as part of SCOPE 2020. At the APSA annual meeting, Sydnor also participated in a
roundtable on teaching civic engagement and received the Craig L. Brians Award for
Undergraduate Research and Mentoring from the APSA Political Science Education section.
Assistant Professor of Political Science Emily Sydnor is the recipient of one of the American
Political Science Association’s prestigious Centennial Center Special Projects Fund grants. The
Special Projects Fund is an initiative that provides grants of up to $25,000 to support member-led
collaborative projects aimed at advancing the discipline of political science. Sydnor is one of
the principal investigators on the taskforce project “The Components, Processes, and Implications
of Conducting Civically Engaged Research in Political Science,” which you can learn more
about here.

--- Page 33 of 38 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Professor of Political Science Shannon Mariotti is cochairing a new group within the Western
Political Science Association (WPSA): the Virtual Community on Embodied Social Change and
Healing Justice. The WPSA’s Virtual Communities have two goals: (1) To keep scholarly
connections strong and increase access—through small conferences, book groups, panels for
works in progress, and mentoring and solidarity—during a time when traditional conferences are
being revised and reimagined out of both necessity and choice. (2) To focus on areas of study that
have tended to be marginalized in mainstream political science, such as planetary justice, critical
disability studies, critical whiteness studies, decolonizing political science, and inclusive teaching
and pedagogy. You can read more about all the Virtual Communities here, and you can read
about the Embodied Social Change and Healing Justice Virtual Community here.
August 2020
Avery Beam ’19 had her paper “Women’s Representation in the Post-Soviet Space: Latvia and
Lithuania” accepted for publication in Reinvention: An International Journal of Undergraduate
Research. The paper is based on Beam’s final research paper for Dean of the Faculty and Professor
of Political Science Alisa Gaunder’s Women and Politics in Europe and Asia course. It examines
the role electoral systems play in affecting the greater representation of women in post-Soviet
democracies. Beam is currently a research assistant at the Congressional Research Service in
Washington, D.C.

--- Page 34 of 38 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
July 2020
Assistant Professor of Political Science Emily Sydnor and three coprincipal investigators received
a $25,000 grant from the American Political Science Association Special Projects Fund to advance
the public impact of political science research. The grant will fund a series of workshops on
civically engaged research, building a cohort of faculty whose research is designed collaboratively
with community partners to produce mutually beneficial results and more closely align the
academic field of political science with the practice of politics and governance.
June 2020
Conner Joyce ’19 had his paper, “A Path-Dependent Explanation of Divergent Nuclear
Trajectories,” accepted for publication in the Pi Sigma Alpha Undergraduate Journal of Politics. The
paper is based on Joyce’s honors thesis in political science in 2019. It examines why some
countries attempt to acquire nuclear weapons and others do not. Joyce is currently in a master’s
program at the LBJ School at the University of Texas.
Professor of Political Science Eric Selbin helped organize and served as a “mentor” for the
International Studies Association’s (ISA’s) Second Emerging Global South Scholar Workshop. The
workshop brought together 20 Global South scholars from Argentina, Brazil, China, Colombia,
India, Jamaica, Kazakhstan, Lebanon, Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan, Portugal, South Africa, Sri Lanka,
Uganda, and the U.S. (selected from more than 250 applicants) with seven “mentors” from Egypt,
India, Mexico, South Africa, the U.S, and the U.K. During the workshop, Selbin specifically

--- Page 35 of 38 ---

cochaired a session on publishing strategies for peer-reviewed journals. Originally scheduled for
Ifrane, Morocco, the workshop was funded by the ISA’s Committee on the Status of Engagement
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
with the Global South, who, along with the Global South Caucus of the ISA, sponsored the event.
Professor of Political Science Shannon Mariotti worked with several friends to organize a Racial
Justice March in solidarity and partnership with Black Lives Matter in the community of Alamo
Heights. The march took place Saturday, June 6, and more than 500 people turned out to protest
against White Silence and support Black Lives Matter. One goal was to begin a community
conversation about white privilege as it relates to racial injustice and police violence. Media
outlets covered the march and interviewed Mariotti; you can read the Texas Public Radio article
here , as well as an article by the San Antonio Express News here .
May 2020
Assistant Professor of Political Science Emily Sydnor talked about her recent book, Disrespectful
Democracy: The Psychology of Political Incivility, the concerns raised by calls for civility, and who
the most conflict-avoidant president might have been on the podcast Politics in Question. The
episode is available here.

--- Page 36 of 38 ---

Professor of Political Science Shannon Mariotti coorganized the second annual interdisciplinary
Politics of the Mindful Revolution miniconference as part of the Western Political Science
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Association conference. She helped organize three author-meets-critics roundtables. One panel
features law professor and mindfulness teacher Rhonda Magee speaking with commentators
about her book The Inner Work of Racial Justice. Another panel features religious studies
professor Ann Gleig speaking with commentators about her book American Dharma: Buddhism
beyond Modernity. A third panel features the sociologist, yoga teacher, and poet Becky Thompson
speaking with commentators about her book Teaching with Tenderness: Toward an Embodied
Practice. Our panels are all open to the public and will take place on Zoom throughout the day on
Thursday, May 21. You can find the full program here.
Professor of Political Science and Dean of the Faculty Alisa Gaunder’s article “Conservative
Women in Germany and Japan: Chancellors versus Madonnas,” coauthored with Sarah Wiliarty,
appears in hard copy in the latest issue of Politics and Gender (vol. 16, pp. 99-122).
Professor of Political Science Eric Selbin has been appointed by International Studies Association
(ISA) President Helen V. Milner and approved by the ISA Governing Council as one of the nine
members of the ISA Publications Committee. The committee is responsible for overseeing the
eight journals the association publishes. As a member of the Feminist Theory & Gender Studies,
Global Development Studies, and Theory Sections and the Global South and Lesbian, Gay,
Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, & Allies Caucuses, as well as being affiliated with the Women’s
Caucus, Selbin intends to work to further the groups’ respective agendas as well as to be a voice
for small liberal-arts college faculty in the publication process.

--- Page 37 of 38 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Feburary 2020
Professor of Political Science Shannon Mariotti published an invited article for the volume A
Companion to Adorno, edited by Peter Gordon, Espen Hammer, and Max Pensky. This volume is
part of the Blackwell Companions to Philosophy series and, with 40 essays, is the largest collection
of essays by Adorno specialists ever gathered in a single volume. Her piece is titled “Adorno’s
Democratic Modernism in America: Leaders and Educators as Political Artists.” Bridging
disciplinary divides, this essay brings the lens of artistic modernism to bear on Adorno’s writings
on democracy in America to illuminate the distinctive contributions of a political theory that
might only appear partial and preliminary when analyzed through the lens of conventional
politics. Adorno’s understanding of “democratic enlightenment” resonates with the modernist
concept of epiphany and represents a translation of artistic modernism to the political realm. She
shows how Adorno’s lessons on the meaningful everyday practice of democracy speak powerfully
and practically to people in the U.S. today.
January 2020
Assistant Professor of Political Science Emily Sydnor was interviewed about her recently
published book, Disrespectful Democracy: The Psychology of Political Incivility (Columbia
University Press, 2019), as part of the National Institute for Civil Discourse’s podcast series. The
conversation ranged from the specific findings of the book to broader debates about the role that
civility and incivility have in democracies. The interview is available here .

--- Page 38 of 38 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Professor of Political Science Eric Selbin published a review of the redoubtable Margaret
Randall’s Exporting Revolution: Cuba’s Global Solidarity(Duke University Press, 2017) in the
Canadian journal Left History: An Interdisciplinary Journal of Historical Inquiry and Debate.
GEORGETOWN, TEXAS
512.863.6511
CONTACT