--- Page 1 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/chemistry-and-biochemistry/notable-facu...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
CCHHEEMMIISSTTRRYY && BBIIOOCCHHEEMMIISSTTRRYY
Notable Faculty & Student Achievements
MMaarrcchh 22002266
Violin and chemistry double major Seth Sagen ’26 was selected to perform violin with the
Austin Symphony in their recent Masterworks concerts. He performed Strauss’ “Also Sprach
Zarathustra,” a masterpiece of classical music which is also featured in the beginning of the
film 2001: A Space Odyssey. He shared the stage with his teacher, Assistant Professor of
Violin, Viola, and Chamber Music Jessica Mathaes, who is concertmaster of the Austin
Symphony and performed the concertmaster solos in the piece.
NNoovveemmbbeerr 22002255
Chemistry and biochemistry majors Kaiden Salaz ’26, Alex Dow ’26, Ian Becher ’26,
Saki’a Rivers ’26, Maddie Bridges ’26, and Kayla Moody ’26 presented posters and
Assistant Professor of Chemistry Sara Massey gave an invited talk at the American
Chemical Society Southeast/Southwest Regional Meeting in Orlando, FL in October. Student
presentations resulted from research done with Massey, Professor of Chemistry Emily
Niemeyer, and Assistant Professor of Chemistry Chelsea Massaro, who also attended the
conference.
1 of 27 3/24/26, 9:07 AM

--- Page 2 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/chemistry-and-biochemistry/notable-facu...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Professor of Chemistry and Biochemistry and holder of the Garey Endowed Chair in
Chemistry Maha Zewail-Foote presented at the UNESCO Regional Centre for Quality in
Education’s International Forum on World Quality Day. Her presentation, “Thinking
Differently about Quality: Curiosity, Connection, and the Future of Learning,” explored how
mentorship, inclusivity, and human-centered teaching can advance educational quality and
innovation. Addressing an international audience of education leaders and policymakers, Dr.
Zewail-Foote reflected on the power of curiosity and compassion in shaping the future of
global education and advancing equitable, high-quality learning experiences.
OOccttoobbeerr 22002255
Professor of Chemistry Emily Niemeyer and Southwestern graduates Mattigan Aga ’25
and Holly Lawson ’23 published a research article titled “Plant maturity differentially
affects the phenolic composition and antioxidant properties of green basil (Ocimum
basilicum L.) cultivars.” The article is part of a special issue that highlights undergraduate
research in the American Chemical Society’s journal ACS Omega. The work was supported
by The Welch Foundation and Southwestern’s Herbert and Kate Dishman endowment. The
open-access article is available to read here.
2 of 27 3/24/26, 9:07 AM

--- Page 3 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/chemistry-and-biochemistry/notable-facu...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
SSeepptteemmbbeerr 22002255
Assistant Professor of Chemistry Sara Massey was awarded a Launching Early-Career
Academic Pathways in the Mathematical and Physical Sciences (LEAPS-MPS) grant from
the National Science Foundation (NSF). This $250,000 research grant will support her lab’s
research over the next two years, studying the effects of native environment and external
stressors on diatom light-harvesting.
Professor of Chemistry Emily Niemeyer and Southwestern graduates Haley White ’20,
Bailey Meyer ’20, Jared McCormack ’22, and Holly Lawson ’23 published a research
article titled “Comparison of culinary and ceremonial matcha green teas: relationship
between phytochemical composition and antioxidant properties” in the Journal of Food
Measurement and Characterization. The research was supported by The Welch Foundation
and Southwestern’s Herbert and Kate Dishman endowment. The open access article is
available to read here.
AApprriill 22002255
Assistant Professor of Chemistry Sara Massey gave a talk at the American Chemical
Society Spring 2025 national meeting in San Diego on her recently published work with
3 of 27 3/24/26, 9:07 AM

--- Page 4 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/chemistry-and-biochemistry/notable-facu...
chemistry graduate Lexi Fantz ’21 on low energy chlorophylls in cyanobacterial light-
harvesting.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Chemistry majors Jodi Glenn-Millhouse ’25, Kaiden Salaz ’25, Annalina Slover ’26,
and Carolyn Waldie ’26 presented posters on their research on how photosynthetic
diatoms adapt their light-harvesting under light and magnesium stress at the American
Chemical Society Spring 2025 national meeting in San Diego. Their presentations resulted
from research done with Assistant Professor of Chemistry Sara Massey.
MMaarrcchh 22002255
Assistant Professor of Chemistry Sara Massey and chemistry graduate Lexi Fantz ’21
published an article titled “Functional Connectivity of Red Chlorophylls in Cyanobacterial
Photosystem I Revealed by Fluence-Dependent Transient Absorption” in the Journal of
Physical Chemistry B. They used ultrafast laser spectroscopy to show energy transfer
between low energy chlorophyll sites on the picosecond timescale. This work was done in
collaboration with researchers at Swarthmore College, National Institutes of Health, the
University of Chicago, and the University of Sheffield. The article can be read here.
4 of 27 3/24/26, 9:07 AM

--- Page 5 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/chemistry-and-biochemistry/notable-facu...
Professor and Garey Chair of Chemistry and Biochemistry Maha Zewail-Foote is the first
author of a landmark publication in Nucleic Acids Research, a top journal in the field
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
showcasing leading edge research. This publication, “Oxidative damage within alternative
DNA structures results in aberrant mutagenic processing,” is the result of years of
dedicated work and marks a major scholarly milestone. Conducted in collaboration with a
research team at UT Austin, this work demonstrates that certain DNA structures are
particularly susceptible to damage, contributing to genetic instability — a key factor in
diseases like cancer.
NNoovveemmbbeerr 22002244
Ashlyn Cadena ’27, Olive Forrest ’26, Andres Garza ’27, Amanda Mejia ’27, Olivia
Johnson ’26, and Professor of Chemistry Emily Niemeyer attended the 2024 National
Science Foundation (NSF) S-STEM Scholars and Principal Investigator Meeting in Chicago,
IL. In addition to interacting with other S-STEM Scholars from around the country and
attending workshops and professional development sessions, three Scholars presented
their research in conference sessions. Garza’s poster, titled “Laser induced synthesis of
cobalt oxide oxygen evolution catalysts,” described work he completed during a summer
Research Experience for Undergraduates (REU) program at Texas State University. Mejia
presented a poster, “Granular hydrogel synthesis for comparable in vitro model of brain
parenchyma tissue,” which is based on her ongoing research with Assistant Professor of
Physics Cody Crosby. Cadena’s poster, “Perimeter Minimizing Rectangles in R2 with
density M|x| + N|y|,” described her collaborative research with other Southwestern math
students, Associate Professor of Mathematics John Ross, and Adjunct Professor of
Mathematics Lauren Ross.
5 of 27 3/24/26, 9:07 AM

--- Page 6 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/chemistry-and-biochemistry/notable-facu...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Professor of Biochemistry and Garey Chair of Chemistry Maha Zewail-Foote gave an oral
presentation for a special session on mechanisms of genomic repair and mutagenesis at the
Southwest Regional Meeting of the American Chemical Society in Waco, TX. Her
presentation highlighted research conducted during her sabbatical, in collaboration with
researchers at UT Austin.
OOccttoobbeerr 22002244
Jodi Glenn-Millhouse ’25, Kaiden Salaz ’26, Annalina Slover ’26, and Carolyn Waldie ’26
presented posters on their research on how photosynthetic diatoms adapt their light-
harvesting under light and magnesium stress at the Southwest Regional Meeting of the
American Chemical Society in Waco, TX. Their presentations resulted from research done
with Assistant Professor of Chemistry Sara Massey.
Biochemistry major Samantha (Sam) Hazen ’26 has been selected as a finalist for the
American Chemical Society (ACS) Agricultural and Food Chemistry Division (AGFD)
Undergraduate Poster Competition. As part of the award, Sam will receive $1,000 in travel
expenses to attend the spring ACS National Meeting in San Diego, CA, where she will
present her poster, titled “Comparison of phenolic composition, flavonoid content, and
antioxidant properties among cacao nibs sourced from different origins.” The poster is
based on research that Sam is completing with Professor of Chemistry Emily Niemeyer.
The ACS AGFD competition was created to showcase the research talents of undergraduate
students, and all finalists participate in a poster symposium with the possibility of winning
6 of 27 3/24/26, 9:07 AM

--- Page 7 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/chemistry-and-biochemistry/notable-facu...
additional cash prizes.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Chemistry major Jodi Glenn-Millhouse ’25 gave a talk titled “Investigating the Effects of
Decreased Magnesium Concentrations on Phaeodactylum tricornutum F710 Fluorescence”
at the Fall Undergraduate Research Symposium (FURS) at the University of Texas at Austin
on October 5. She was awarded the Best Presentation Award in Chemistry. Her talk resulted
from research done with Assistant Professor of Chemistry Sara Massey.
AAuugguusstt 22002244
Director of General Chemistry Labs Dilani Koswatta and Director of Organic Chemistry
Labs Carmen Velez presented a poster on their collaborative project titled “Fostering STEM
Interest Through Chemistry Connections with the Community” at the 2024 Biennial
Conference on Chemical Education, held on July 29 at the University of Kentucky in
Lexington, KY. This community-engaged learning (CEL) project connected chemistry and
biochemistry senior capstone students, general chemistry lab students, and 5th graders
from Georgetown’s Annie Purl Elementary in an outreach activity designed to spark curiosity
about chemistry in young students.
7 of 27 3/24/26, 9:07 AM

--- Page 8 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/chemistry-and-biochemistry/notable-facu...
Director of Organic Chemistry Labs Carmen Velez presented a workshop titled “Fueling
Education Transformation: The Dynamic Chemistry of Community-Based Learning” at the
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
2024 Biennial Conference on Chemical Education, held on July 29 at the University of
Kentucky in Lexington, KY. The workshop focused on community-based learning (CBL), an
educational approach that connects students with community partners to enhance
academic learning, civic engagement, and empathy. Participants explored best practices
using the Chemistry for the Community (CFTC) curriculum, reviewed examples of CBL
implementation, and developed personalized CBL plans by mapping community assets and
defining student outcomes.
JJuunnee 22002244
Assistant Professor of Chemistry Sara Massey gave a talk titled “Fluence-dependent
transient absorption reveals the functional connectivity of red chlorophyll sites in
cyanobacterial PSI” at the North American Photosynthesis Congress, held June 3-6 in
Atlanta, GA. She conducted the research with Lexi Fantz ’21 along with collaborators from
Swarthmore College, the University of Chicago, and the University of Sheffield.
AApprriill 22002244
Garey Chair and Professor of Chemistry & Biochemistry Maha Zewail-Foote co-authored a
paper in a top journal, Briefings in Bioinformatics.She and her co-authors showed that DNA
8 of 27 3/24/26, 9:07 AM

--- Page 9 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/chemistry-and-biochemistry/notable-facu...
damage is localized within cancer-forming sequences across the human genome. This
multidisciplinary research involved a unique collaboration with UT Austin professors in
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
various disciplines.
From a pool of more than 5,000 applicants, biochemistry/mathematics junior and Dixon
Scholar Brian Armijo ’25 was selected as a 2024 Goldwater scholar - SU’s first ever! The
Goldwater Scholarship Program, one of the oldest and most prestigious national
scholarships in the natural sciences, engineering, and mathematics in the United States,
seeks to identify, encourage, and financially support college sophomores and juniors who
show exceptional promise of becoming this nation’s next generation of research leaders in
these fields.
Professor of Biochemistry and Garey Chair of Chemistry Maha Zewail-Foote presented
“Biological and molecular consequences of oxidative damage on non-B DNA-induced
genetic instability” at the 2024 American Society of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology
National Meeting.
Professor of Biochemistry and Garey Chair of Chemistry Maha Zewail-Foote delivered a
presentation on effective strategies for improving diversity, inclusion, and belonging within
undergraduate research laboratories at the 2024 American Society of Biochemistry and
9 of 27 3/24/26, 9:07 AM

--- Page 10 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/chemistry-and-biochemistry/notable-facu...
Molecular Biology National Meeting. Her abstract was selected for the coveted spotlight talk
for a special session on challenges and best practices in running a research program
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
primarily with undergraduate students.
Professor of Biochemistry and Garey Chair of Chemistry Maha Zewail-Foote co-organized
and led a well-attended 90-min workshop titled “Unlocking Your Career Success Through
Networking and Mentorship” at the 2024 American Society of Biochemistry and Molecular
Biology National Meeting. Workshops were selected based on proposal submissions.
FFeebbrruuaarryy 22002244
10 of 27 3/24/26, 9:07 AM

--- Page 11 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/chemistry-and-biochemistry/notable-facu...
Director of Organic Chemistry Labs Carmen Velez and Assistant Professor of Physics Cody
Crosby, alongside several outstanding Southwestern undergraduate alumni and students
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
(Kristie Cheng, Nina Woodward, Noor Nazeer, and Gabriela Nicole Hislop Gomez) published
an article in the Journal of Chemical Education that describes the adaptation of gelatin
methacryoyl (GelMA) hydrogels to the undergraduate laboratory. The authors found that
their methods reinforced chemistry laboratory skills introduced students to a new discipline
(biomaterials), and increased student interest in the medicinal applications of materials. The
article was additionally featured by ACS as a supplementary journal cover designed by
Lauren Muskara, a Southwestern alumnus.
NNoovveemmbbeerr 22002233
Professor of Chemistry Emily Niemeyer, Bailey Meyer ’20, Haley White ’20, and Jared
McCormack ’22 published an article titled “Catechin composition, phenolic content, and
antioxidant properties of commercially-available bagged, gunpowder, and matcha green
teas” in the Springer Nature journal Plant Foods for Human Nutrition. Interestingly, results
showed that the lowest-cost teas in the study (such as a loose-leaf gunpowder tea made by
Pure Leaf and bagged green teas produced by Allegro, Twinings, and Lipton) had
significantly higher phenolic contents and antioxidant capacities than more expensive
matcha green teas. The research was supported by the Robert A. Welch Foundation and
Southwestern’s Herbert and Kate Dishman endowment. The article is available here.
Meghana Nittala ’24 and Sanjana Nittala ’24 each gave an oral presentation on their
research on how photosynthetic diatoms adapt their light-harvesting under light and iron
11 of 27 3/24/26, 9:07 AM

--- Page 12 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/chemistry-and-biochemistry/notable-facu...
stress at the Gulf Coast Undergraduate Research Symposium (GCURS) hosted by Rice
University in October. Both of their talks were recognized with “Outstanding Presentation in
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Physical Chemistry” awards. Their presentations resulted from research done with Assistant
Professor of Chemistry Sara Massey.
OOccttoobbeerr 22002233
Sanjana Nittala ’24 gave a talk titled “The Emergence of the F710 State Due to Iron Stress
on Diatom P. tricornutum Light-harvesting Complexes” at the Fall Undergraduate Research
Symposium (FURS) at UT-Austin in September. She was awarded the Best Presentation
Award in Chemistry. Her talk resulted from research done with Assistant Professor of
Chemistry Sara Massey.
AAuugguusstt 22002233
12 of 27 3/24/26, 9:07 AM

--- Page 13 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/chemistry-and-biochemistry/notable-facu...
Director of Organic Chemistry Labs Carmen Velez attended the NSF-sponsored Chemistry
for the Community Workshop at St. Joseph’s College of Maine. She presented her work on
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
community-engaged learning that she did last spring in the Chemistry Capstone course.
Assistant Professor of Chemistry Sara Massey presented a poster titled “The light-
harvesting response of the diatom P. tricornutum to external stressors varies by native
environment” at the Photosynthesis Gordon Research Conference, held July 23-28 in
Newry, Maine. She conducted the research with Yusuf Buhari ’23, Sanjana Nittala ’24,
Meghana Nittala ’24, and Noor Nazeer ’24.
Former Associate Professor of Chemistry and Biochemistry Mike Gesinski and five of his
research students—Richard Rodriguez ’23, Natalie Zequeira ’24, Sophia Karim ’24, Luca
Cipleu ’25, and Zachary Logan ’26—attended the 48th National Organic Chemistry
Symposium, held July 9-13 at Notre Dame University. They met with scientific leaders from
academia and the pharmaceutical industry and sang karaoke with Nobel laureates.
Together, they presented three posters on the “Titanium-Mediated Synthesis of
Cyclobutanones” and the “Gold(I)-Catalyzed Synthesis of Heterocycles.”
13 of 27 3/24/26, 9:07 AM

--- Page 14 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/chemistry-and-biochemistry/notable-facu...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
MMaayy 22002233
The following individuals were recently recognized as award recipients for the 2022-23
academic year. Teaching awards: Visiting Assistant Professor of Chemistry Chelsea
Massaro, Assistant Professor of Philosophy Jorge Lizarzaburu, and Associate Professor of
French Francis Mathieu. Assistant Professor of Art Ron Geibel won the Jesse E. Purdy
Excellence in Scholarly and Creative Works Award. The Advising Award went to Associate
Professor of Chemistry Michael Gesinski.
AApprriill 22002233was well represented at the American Chemical Society Spring
2023 meeting in Indianapolis, IN. Five students presented a total of three posters at the
meeting: Yusuf Buhari ’23, Holly Lawson ’23, Sanjana Nittala ’24, Meghana Nittala ’24, and
Noor Nazeer ’24. This work was done collaboratively with Assistant Professor of
Chemistry Sara Massey and Professor of Chemistry Emily Niemeyer.
Professor of Biochemistry and Garey Chair of Chemistry Maha Zewail-Foote and Associate
Professor of Biology Martín Gonzalez published an article in the Journal of Chemical
Education where they describe the development and implementation of a unique
undergraduate research-based laboratory course that cultivates an inclusive and supportive
learning community and helps students develop a sense of belonging through mentorship
14 of 27 3/24/26, 9:07 AM

--- Page 15 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/chemistry-and-biochemistry/notable-facu...
and peer-to-peer learning. The course is centered on a new framework they developed
called crisscrossing laboratory experiences (CCLE), where first-year students were placed
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
into two interdisciplinary research cohorts. Halfway through the course, the cohorts
swapped research projects to establish reciprocal peer learning partnerships allowing
students to be both learners and teachers.
Several student members of the Texas Alpha chapter of the Alpha Chi Honor Society
attended the Alpha Chi National Convention in Albuquerque, New Mexico, where they
presented research and creative works from several fields. Arden Neff ’25 presented a
research poster titled “Using Linear Programming to Optimize Grape Harvest Timing and
Yield” based on research supervised by Professor of Computer Science Dr. Barbara
Anthony. Chelsey Southwell ’24 Samuel Dawson ’23 gave a presentation titled “Gold(I)
Catalyzed Synthesis of Isoquinolines” based on research supervised by Associate Professor
of Chemistry and Biochemistry Mike Gesinski. Finally, Anna Wicker ’24 gave a piano
performance of “Souvenir de Porto Rico” by L.M. Gottschalk, which she selected with the
guidance of Professor of Music Kiyoshi Tamagawa. Additionally, it was announced that
Marcelo Salazar-Barragan ’23 was awarded a $3,000 H. Y. Benedict Fellowship. Alpha Chi is
a national honor society open to students of all academic disciplines and was founded atin 1922. Only the top 10% of juniors and seniors are invited to join,
and our chapter currently consists of 55 student members.
Professor of Biochemistry and Garey Chair of Chemistry Maha Zewail-Foote gave an oral
presentation at the 2023 American Chemical Society national meeting in the Division of
Biological Chemistry’s session on Emerging Areas and New Methods in Biological
Chemistry. Her talk was titled “Impact of oxidative damage on H-DNA-induced genetic
instability.”
15 of 27 3/24/26, 9:07 AM

--- Page 16 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/chemistry-and-biochemistry/notable-facu...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Professor of Biochemistry and Garey Chair of Chemistry Maha Zewail-Foote gave an oral
presentation at the 2023 American Chemical Society national meeting, Division of Chemical
Education. Her talk was on developing and implementing an undergraduate research-based
laboratory course that promotes inclusion and belonging through mentorship and peer-to-
peer learning. Her abstract was chosen for the SCI-MIX poster presentation – a poster
event representing each division’s best.
MMaarrcchh 22002233
Professor of Biochemistry and Garey Chair of Chemistry Maha Zewail-Foote, Cargill
Endowed Associate Professor of Education Alicia Moore, and Professor of Political
Science Alisa Gaunder co-presented a virtual session for the Association for American
Colleges and Universities (AAC&U) 2023 Conference on Diversity, Equity and Student
Success. The mission of the AAC&U conference was to explore the complexities of truth
within higher education while examining institutional structures and beliefs that impede
diversity, equity, and inclusion goals. The presentation, titled “Cross-Institutional
CONNECTions: Mentorship, Truth, Belonging, and Retention,” provided an overview of
Southwestern’s ACS-funded FOC CONNECT project, which seeks to dismantle barriers to
success experienced by early-career faculty of color (FOC) in the academy. The project
supports a cross-institutional faculty mentoring program that connects these scholars with
senior faculty of color from other ACS institutions.
16 of 27 3/24/26, 9:07 AM

--- Page 17 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/chemistry-and-biochemistry/notable-facu...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
AAuugguusstt 22002222
Associate Professor of Education Alicia Moore and Professor of Chemistry and
Biochemistry Maha Zewail-Foote were awarded a grant from the Associated Colleges of
the South (ACS) to create a unique virtual cross-institutional faculty mentoring program for
early-career faculty of color (FOC) called FOC CONNECT. The program will connect early-
career faculty of color with senior faculty from other ACS institutions. Through this program,
early-career faculty of color will receive mentorship and support. The program will also
provide training for selected senior faculty mentors.
Director of Organic Chemistry Labs Carmen Velez and Director of General Chemistry
Labs Dilani Koswattaattended the 2022 Biennial Conference on Chemical Education, held
July 31–August 4 at Purdue University in West Lafayette, Indiana. Velez presented her
research titled “Culturally Relevant and Socially Responsible Design of Organic Chemistry
Laboratory Curriculum.”
JJuullyy 22002222
17 of 27 3/24/26, 9:07 AM

--- Page 18 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/chemistry-and-biochemistry/notable-facu...
Associate Professor of Chemistry and BiochemistryMike Gesinski and four of his SCOPE
research students—Nathaniel Blake ’24, Michelle Nguyen ’23, Yaz Sebastiany ’24,
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
and Chelsey Southwell ’24—attended the 47th National Organic Chemistry Symposium,
held June 26–30 in San Diego, California. They met with scientific leaders from academia
and the pharmaceutical industry, including three Nobel laureates, and presented three
posters. Nguyen was awarded best poster for her presentation titled “Titanium-Mediated
Synthesis of Cyclobutanones.”
AApprriill 22002222was well represented at the American Chemical Society Spring
2022 meeting in San Diego, California. Eight students presented a total of six posters at the
meeting: Yusuf Buhari ’23, Sean Calvert ’22, Gabrielle Cano ’22, Natalie
Gierat ’22, Rhoda Hijazi ’22, Jared McCormack ’22, Neha Momin ’22, and Ethan
Shilgalis ’22. This work was done collaboratively with Associate Professor of
Chemistry Mike Gesinski, Assistant Professor of Chemistry Sara Massey, and Professor of
Chemistry Emily Niemeyer.
FFeebbuurraarryy 22002222
Associate Professor of Chemistry Mike Gesinski was awarded a grant from Organic
Syntheses Inc. for summer research at a principally undergraduate institution. This award is
18 of 27 3/24/26, 9:07 AM

--- Page 19 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/chemistry-and-biochemistry/notable-facu...
sponsored by a nonprofit that specializes in publishing extremely scalable and reproducible
scientific results. It will provide Gesinski with $16,000 over two years to fund student
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
research on his project involving gold-catalysis.
Professor of Chemistry Emily Niemeyer published a chapter titled “Semester-long Projects
in the Analytical Chemistry Laboratory Curriculum” in a new edited volume, Active Learning
in the Analytical Chemistry Curriculum. The book was published by the American Chemical
Society (ACS) as part of the ACS Symposium Series. The peer-reviewed pedagogical
chapter discusses the implementation and assessment of semester-long projects in
undergraduate analytical chemistry lab courses. The chapter was coauthored with Angela
González-Mederos of the Inter American University of Puerto Rico–San Germán and Tom
Wenzel of Bates College and stems from the group’s collaboration during national active-
learning workshops for analytical chemistry faculty.
19 of 27 3/24/26, 9:07 AM

--- Page 20 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/chemistry-and-biochemistry/notable-facu...
Professor of Chemistry Emily Niemeyer, Eunice Bajomo ’19, Melanie Aing ’18, and Luke
Ford ’19 published an article titled “Chemotyping of Commercially Available Basil (Ocimum
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
basilicum L.) Varieties: Cultivar and Morphotype Influence Phenolic Acid Composition and
Antioxidant properties” in Elsevier’s NFS Journal. The peer-reviewed article discusses a
collaborative project that involved growing 22 basil varieties from seed (~100 plants),
harvesting the basil leaves, and analyzing their chemical composition. The research was
supported by the Robert A. Welch Foundation and Southwestern’s Herbert and Kate
Dishman endowment.
DDeecceemmbbeerr 22002211
Assistant Professor of Chemistry Sara Massey coauthored an article titled “Redox
Conditions Correlated with Vibronic Coupling Modulate Quantum Beats in Photosynthetic
Pigment-Protein Complexes” that was published in the journal Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences of the United States of America. The paper was coauthored with
scientists at the University of Chicago and Washington University in St. Louis.
OOccttoobbeerr 22002211
Professor of Chemistry Emily Niemeyer and Associate Professor of Chemistry Mike
Gesinski published a chapter in the book Equity and Inclusion in Higher Education:
Strategies for Teaching (University of Cincinnati Press, 2021). In their chapter, titled “Active
20 of 27 3/24/26, 9:07 AM

--- Page 21 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/chemistry-and-biochemistry/notable-facu...
Learning Pedagogies in the Introductory and Organic Chemistry Curriculum: Increasing
Student Persistence and Success,” Niemeyer and Gesinski chronicle the Chemistry and
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Biochemistry Department’s move to active learning pedagogies and the effect these
changes have had on improving retention of students from underrepresented groups in
STEM fields. More information about the book can be found on the University of Cincinnati
Libraries website .
MMaayy 22002211
Chemistry major Ethan Iverson ’21 presented his research project titled “Synthesis and
Characterization of Three Schiff Base Constitutional Isomers and Their Respective Copper
(II) Complexes” at the Spring 2021 American Chemical Society Virtual Convention. The
poster presentation resulted from research that Iverson completed with Director of General
Chemistry Labs Willis Weigand. Iverson was also awarded the Outstanding Senior Award by
the American Chemical Society, which was presented at a virtual awards ceremony by the
local Central Texas chapter.
AApprriill 22002211
Ethan Iverson ’21, a research student of Director of General Chemistry Labs Willis
Weigand , has been invited to present his poster, “Synthesis and Characterization of Three
Schiff Base Constitutional Isomers and Their Respective Copper (II) Complexes,” at the
21 of 27 3/24/26, 9:07 AM

--- Page 22 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/chemistry-and-biochemistry/notable-facu...
Spring American Chemical Society National Meeting. He was selected to present his poster
during a live, online Inorganic Technical Division session on April 21, 2021.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
MMaarrcchh 22002211
Sean Calvert ’22, in collaboration with Associate Professor of Chemistry and
Biochemistry Mike Gesinski, received the prestigious American Chemical Society Summer
Undergraduate Research Fellowship (SURF). As a fellow, Calvert will receive funding to
study gold catalysis over the summer under Gesinski’s mentorship. Additionally, Calvert has
been invited to attend an awards ceremony, present his research at a poster session, and
tour Pfizer Research and Development Labs in Groton, CT.
Assistant Professor of Chemistry Sara Massey coauthored an article titled “Photosynthesis
Tunes Quantum-Mechanical Mixing of Electronic and Vibrational States to Steer Exciton
Energy Transfer” in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the
United States of America. The peer-reviewed paper shows evidence that photosynthetic
bacteria use quantum-mechanical mechanisms to protect themselves from oxidative
damage. The paper was coauthored with scientists at the University of Chicago and
Washington University in St. Louis.
22 of 27 3/24/26, 9:07 AM

--- Page 23 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/chemistry-and-biochemistry/notable-facu...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
JJaannuuaarryy 22002211
Professor of Chemistry and the Herbert and Kate Dishman Chair in Science Emily
Niemeyer published an article titled “Hands-on Experiences for Remotely Taught Analytical
Chemistry Laboratories” in the journal Analytical and Bioanalytical Chemistry. The article is
a contribution to the “ABCs of Education and Professional Development in Analytical
Science” portion of the journal and is part of a series on teaching analytical chemistry
during the pandemic. Coauthored with Joel Destino and Erin Gross from Creighton
University and Steven Petrovic from Southern Oregon University, the peer-reviewed
pedagogical article provides an overview of different methodologies that provide hands-on
laboratory experiences to students in remote and hybrid analytical chemistry courses. The
collaborative article stemmed from Niemeyer’s role as a facilitator at regional and national
active-learning workshops for analytical chemistry faculty. Find the article here.
DDeecceemmbbeerr 22002200
23 of 27 3/24/26, 9:07 AM

--- Page 24 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/chemistry-and-biochemistry/notable-facu...
Garey Chair and Professor of Chemistry Maha Zewail-Foote published an article “Using
Student-Centered Approaches to Teach the Biochemistry of SARS-CoV-2” in the
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
journal Biochemistry and Molecular Biology Education.The article discusses pedagogical
approaches to enhance science literacy and model authentic science inquiry in
biochemistry. This same learning framework was used when the class quickly shifted to
learning about the biochemistry of SARS-CoV-2 last spring.
OOccttoobbeerr 22002200
Professor of Chemistry Emily Niemeyer published an article titled “Instituting a Group
Component to a Final Exam” in Analytical and Bioanalytical Chemistry. The article is a
contribution to the “ABCs of Education and Professional Development in Analytical Science”
portion of the journal and was coauthored with Tom Wenzel from Bates College. The peer-
reviewed pedagogical article provides an overview of considerations for adding a
collaborative group element to final exams in upper-level analytical chemistry courses. The
work stemmed from Niemeyer and Wenzel’s ongoing collaboration as facilitators at regional
and national active-learning workshops for analytical chemistry faculty.
Professor of Chemistry Emily Niemeyer and Derrica McDowell ’20 published a chapter
titled “Factors Influencing the Production of Phenolic Compounds within Basil ( Ocimum
basilicum L. )” in the forthcoming book Ocimum: An Overview. Their chapter discusses the
phenolic compounds found within basil and their associated health benefits, explains
various strategies to increase phytochemical levels in basil, and offers conclusions about
methods that can be used to maximize basil phenolic content. The book is part of the Herbs
24 of 27 3/24/26, 9:07 AM

--- Page 25 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/chemistry-and-biochemistry/notable-facu...
and Herbalism series published by Nova Science Publishers. Research for the chapter was
supported by the Herbert and Kate Dishman fund at.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
AAuugguusstt 22002200
Garey Chair and Professor of Chemistry Maha Zewail-Foote published an article in the
Journal of Chemical Education on transitioning her biochemistry lab class to a remote
format. She described the assignments she created that maintained the research learning
objectives of the course and enhanced research skills as well as the community outreach
project, Making a Difference, that she developed for the class.
AApprriill 22002200
Professor of Chemistry Emily Niemeyer, Jiyoun Ahn ’17, and Andie Alford ’17 published an
article titled “Variation in Phenolic Profiles and Antioxidant Properties among Medicinal and
Culinary Herbs of the LamiaceaeFamily” in the most recent issue of the Journal of Food
Measurement and Characterization. Ahn and Alford grew 23 common and less-well-
known Lamiaceaeplants during the SCOPE summer research program and then analyzed
them for their chemistry capstone research. Niemeyer completed the project by conducting
mass spectral analysis of the herbs during her spring 2019 sabbatical in collaboration with
colleagues at the University of Texas at Austin. The research was supported by the Howard
Hughes Medical Institute (HHMI), the Robert A. Welch Foundation, and the Herbert and
25 of 27 3/24/26, 9:07 AM

--- Page 26 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/chemistry-and-biochemistry/notable-facu...
Kate Dishman endowment.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
MMaarrcchh 22002200
Professor of Chemistry Emily Niemeyer and Katie McCance ’15 published an article
titled “Classroom Observations to Characterize Active Learning within Introductory
Undergraduate Science Courses” in the March/April issue of the Journal of College Science
Teaching. The authors discuss the analysis of observation data to characterize different
instructional practices in science classrooms. McCance, a doctoral student in the
Department of STEM Education at North Carolina State University, and Niemeyer
collaborated on the study with Timothy Weston, a research faculty member at the University
of Colorado, Boulder. The research was completed with support from the Howard Hughes
Medical Institute (HHMI).
FFeebbuurraarryy 22002200
Professor of Biology and Chair of the Pre-Med Advisory Committee Maria Cuevas was the
recipient of the inaugural Advisor of the Year Award conferred by the Texas Association of
Advisors for the Health Professions (TAAHP). The award was created to recognize a TAAHP
member who has exhibited excellence in health professions advising over the past year.
Cuevas added significant resources for students in her first two years as Southwestern’s
chief faculty pre-health advisor and chair of the Pre-Med Committee, including a robust
26 of 27 3/24/26, 9:07 AM