--- Page 1 of 2 ---

Welch Summer Research Programhttps://www.southwestern.edu/chemistry-and-biochemistry/welch-summ...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
CCHHEEMMIISSTTRRYY && BBIIOOCCHHEEMMIISSTTRRYY
Welch Summer Research Program
Since 1985, the Chemistry and Biochemistry Department has received a
research grant from the Robert A. Welch Foundation that helps provide
equipment and stipends for students conducting research during the
summer.
Each Welch scholar works closely with the faculty mentor for an eight week period over the
summer. These projects provide research opportunities in the areas of medicinal, organic,
analytical, environmental, inorganic and biochemistry. Students often continue working on these
projects the following year and use this research experience as the basis for their Chemistry and
Biochemistry capstone. In addition, Welch scholars have the opportunity to present their results
the following year at national meetings.
SSuummmmeerr aaccttiivviittiieess
The summer activities have been carefully designed to engage students in a scientific learning
community composed of students and faculty, to aid in their development of necessary skills,
and to create awareness of important scientific issues and career choices. Past activities have
included training sessions on preparing scientific posters and giving oral presentations, informal
presentations on research projects, and discussions on ethical issues in science.
CCoonncclluussiioonn ooff tthhee pprrooggrraamm
Each student will be required to write a technical report which outlines the background and
significance of the research project, experimental design and methodology, and results. During
the spring semester of the following year, students participate in the Southwestern’s Student
1 of 2 3/24/26, 9:07 AM

--- Page 2 of 2 ---

Welch Summer Research Programhttps://www.southwestern.edu/chemistry-and-biochemistry/welch-summ...
Works Symposium where students showcase their research posters to the campus community.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
AApppplliiccaattiioonn pprroocceessss
During the fall semester or early spring, the department hosts an information session about the
available research opportunities supported by The Welch Foundation. Interested Students
should meet with the professors to further discuss the research projects and submit an
application to the department chair (FJS 317). Students will be accepted based on the strength
of their application, interview with the faculty member, research interests, training, and course
work. Approximately ten to twelve students participate in the summer program each year.
GGEEOORRGGEETTOOWWNN,, TTEEXXAASS
551122..886633..66551111
CCOONNTTAACCTT
2 of 2 3/24/26, 9:07 AM