--- Page 1 of 3 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
PHYSICS
For Current Students
There are multiple resources, opportunities, and organizations for students
studying Physics at Southwestern.
Fellowships and Scholarships
The Elizabeth Feagin Brown and Foy F. Feagin, Jr. Scholarship Fund is given in support of
outstanding students majoring in physics or music with an emphasis in performance and stringed
instruments. Awards provided by the fund are intended to provide full or partial payment of tuition
for qualifying students, depending upon how much the fund earns for a given award year.
Student Awards/Presentations
Pelham Keahey
Several Physics students have recently gotten King Creativity Awards. In 2007 ’s
Melanie Loop
project was “Constructing A Low-Cost Solar Water Heater” and ’s project was
“Creating a Solar Powered Refrigerator”.
Mariel Kerbacher
In October 2007 won a prize for best undergraduate poster at the Fall meeting of
the Texas Section of the American Physical Society at Texas A&M.
Sean Smith
In March 2008, presented a poster at the Austin Symposium on Molecular Structure in
Austin.
Internships and Research Opportunities
We actively encourage our students to do research both here at Southwestern and off campus.
Below are some of the places that our students have recently worked:

--- Page 2 of 3 ---

Kevin O’Neil
did research at Rice University
MenPuelhamS eKarecahhey Apply Visit Majors & Minors
did research at Stanford University
Sean Smith
did research at the University of Geissen in Germany
Recent Capstone Projects
At Southwestern, each Physics student is required to do a capstone project. Below are some of the
projects of our most recent graduates:
Ms. Melanie Loop
- “A Solar Powered Refrigerator”
Mr. Carl Webber
- “Converting Human Power into Electrical Power”
Mr. Timofey Beliakov
- “Is the Solar Constant Really Constant?”
Ms. Mariel Kerbacher
- “An Electricity-Generating Wind Turbine”
Mr. Rob Savage
- “The Answer, My Friend, is Blowing in the Wind”: The Savonius Vertical
Axis Wind Turbine”
Mr. Rick Eiland
- “Efficiency of Stellar Spectroscopy”
Student Activities/Organizations
SU Physics and Engineering Rocks
Our club, (SUPER), meets several times each semester.
Sometimes we listen to a talk about physics, astronomy or engineering; sometimes we just get
together and eat some barbeque. Drop by and find out what’s going on.

--- Page 3 of 3 ---

GEORGETOWN, TEXAS
Menu Search 512.863.6511 Apply Visit Majors & Minors
CONTACT