--- Page 1 of 17 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
PHYSICS
Notable Faculty & Student Achievements
March 2026
Assistant Professor of Physics Cody Crosby co-authored an open-access article, titled “Digital
light processing 3D printing enables versatile fabrication of human engineered heart tissues,” that
was recently published in Cell Biomaterials. Briefly, the authors demonstrated that engineered
heart tissue (EHT) molds from inexpensive polymer resins could be deployed to fabricate heart
tissue with enhanced cytoskeletal and metabolic maturity. The work can be accessed here.
November 2025
Assistant Professor of Physics Cody Crosby co-authored “Dynamic Regulation of Granular
Hydrogels Through Guest-Host Interactions to Spatiotemporally Guide Cellular Migration” in the
journal Advanced Science (IF = 14.1), along with several postdoctoral scholars and graduate
students in the Burdick Lab at the University of Colorado–Boulder. The manuscript represents
work undertaken during his pre-tenure sabbatical and demonstrates that printing granular
hydrogels in particulate suspension paths can create a dynamic environment that can regulate cell
migration. The work can be found, open access, at this link.

--- Page 2 of 17 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
October 2025
Professor of Physics Steven Alexander and four of his research students — Heidi Jackson ’26,
Casandra Nunez ’26, Anshika Katrodia ’26, and Brooke Ramey ’27 — attended the Fall 2025
meeting of the Texas Section of the American Physical Society, held October 10-11 in Fort Worth.
Dr. Alexander presented a poster titled “Using Molecular Annealing to Find Molecules with
Specific Absorbance Peaks” and Brooke Ramey presented a poster titled “Verifying the
Experimental Hyperpolarizabilities of Organic Molecules Using Density Functional Theory.” Heidi
Jackson, Casandra Nunez, and Anshika Katrodia presented a poster titled “Analyzing Emission
Spectra to Determine the Mass of a Black Hole.” All of the posters generated considerable interest
and some insightful discussions.
Assistant Professor of Physics Cody Crosby and three of his SURF research students — Sabina
Martinez Carreon ’27, Bryan Guzman-Sanchez ’26, and Rishi Rajesh ’27 — attended the 2025
Biomedical Engineering Society (BMES) Annual Meeting, held October 8-11 in San Diego. Dr.
Crosby moderated two sessions at the international conference, a bioprinting session and a rapid-
fire talk session for undergraduates in biomaterials. Sabina presented the group’s poster, titled
“Post-Print Reinforcement of GelMA/HAMA Scaffolds via PEGDA Infiltration,” at the main
conference and at the separate LatinX in BME Symposium. Both posters were well-attended by
other conference-goers and generated some insightful and helpful discussions. Amanda Mejia
’27 and Gabriela Nicole Hislop Gomez ’26 also attended and participated in the conference.

--- Page 3 of 17 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
August 2025
Associate Professor of Computer Science Jacob Schrum recently attended the Genetic and
Evolutionary Computation Conference in Málaga, Spain to present his peer-reviewed paper, “A
Quality Diversity Approach to Evolving Model Rockets,” co-authored with Assistant Professor of
Physics Cody Crosby. The article, freely accessible here from the ACM Digital library, describes
the use of AI methods inspired by evolution to create designs for model rockets. An informative
video about this joint research is also available here.
May 2025
Assistant Professor of Physics Cody Crosby first authored “Fabrication of Microgel-Reinforced
Hydrogels via Vat Photopolymerization” in the journal ACS Macro Letters with Abhishek Dhand
and the Burdick Lab at the University of Colorado Boulder. The manuscript is the culmination of
his pre-tenure sabbatical and demonstrates for the first time that micron-sized hydrogels can be
incorporated at high densities in complex resin-printed geometries. The work can be found here.
April 2025

--- Page 4 of 17 ---

Assistant Professor of Physics Cody Crosby presented his sabbatical research, titled “Digital light
processing 3D printing of microgel-reinforced hydrogels,” via a 15-minute platform presentation
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
at the 2025 Society for Biomaterials (SFB) Annual Meeting held in Chicago on April 10. The first-
author work is currently under review.
Physics majors Joseph (Joe) Dorsey ’26 and Amanda Mejia ’27 attended the Capital of Texas
Undergraduate Research Conference (CTURC) hosted at the University of Texas at Austin. Joe
presented platform presentations on his and Amanda’s research conducted in the bioprinting
laboratory of Assistant Professor of Physics Cody Crosby.
March 2025
Associate Professor of Computer Science Jacob Schrum and Assistant Professor of Physics Cody
Crosby had their paper, “A Quality Diversity Approach to Evolving Model Rockets,” accepted for
publication in the Proceedings of the Genetic and Evolutionary Computation Conference. For this
paper, evolutionary computation algorithms studied by Dr. Schrum were applied to the problem
of designing model rockets, like those built by Dr. Crosby’s students in his Introduction to
Engineering class. The designs evolved by Dr. Schrum’s program were simulated in a computer,
and the most promising designs were built by physics and computer science double-major Kade
Townsend ’25, before being launched and evaluated in the real world.

--- Page 5 of 17 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Joseph (Joe) Dorsey ’26, Gabriela Nicole Hislop Gomez ’26, Bryan Guzman-
Sanchez ’26, Sabina Martinez Carreon ’28, and Amanda Mejia ’27 attended the Texas Academy
of Science (TAS) 2025 Annual Meeting hosted in Waco. Joe and Amanda presented platform
presentations on their research conducted in the bioprinting laboratory of Assistant Professor of
Physics Cody Crosby. Joe was awarded first place among the platform presentations in the
physics and engineering section. Dr. Crosby also contributed as one of the meeting’s section
chairs.
November 2024
Ashlyn Cadena ’27, Olive Forrest ’26, Andres Garza ’27, Amanda Mejia ’27, Olivia Johnson ’26,
and Professor of Chemistry Emily Niemeyer attended the 2024 National Science Foundation
(NSF) S-STEM Scholars and Principal Investigator Meeting in Chicago, IL. In addition to interacting
with other S-STEM Scholars from around the country and attending workshops and professional
development sessions, three Scholars presented their research in conference sessions. Garza’s
poster, titled “Laser induced synthesis of cobalt oxide oxygen evolution catalysts,” described work
he completed during a summer Research Experience for Undergraduates (REU) program at Texas
State University. Mejia presented a poster, “Granular hydrogel synthesis for comparable in vitro
model of brain parenchyma tissue,” which is based on her ongoing research with Assistant
Professor of Physics Cody Crosby. Cadena’s poster, “Perimeter Minimizing Rectangles in R2 with
density M|x| + N|y|,” described her collaborative research with other Southwestern math students,
Associate Professor of Mathematics John Ross, and Adjunct Professor of Mathematics Lauren
Ross.

--- Page 6 of 17 ---

Assistant Professor of Physics Cody Crosby presented his lab’s progress via a poster presentation
at the 2024 Biomedical Engineering Society (BMES) Annual Meeting held in Baltimore, MD.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Physics majors Joseph Dorsey ’25 and Amanda Mejia ’26 presented their extrusion bioprinting
poster at the 2024 Regional Symposium (Southwest) hosted at UT Austin. Simultaneously,
Assistant Professor of Physics Cody Crosby presented his lab’s pedagogical work on polymer
modification at the 2024 Regional Symposium (Western) hosted at the University of Colorado
Denver (Anschutz campus).
October 2024
Dante Medina ’26 presented a poster titled “Using Molecules to Store Energy” at the Southwest
Regional Meeting of the American Chemical Society in Waco, TX. This presentation resulted from
research done with Professor of Physics Steve Alexander.
Dominic Mashak ’26 presented a poster titled “Finding Molecules with Large
Hyperpolarizabilities” at the Southwest Regional Meeting of the American Chemical Society in
Waco, TX. This presentation resulted from research done with Professor of Physics Steve
Alexander during the summer of 2024.

--- Page 7 of 17 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
July 2024
Assistant Professor of Physics Cody Crosby co-authored “Endometrial decidualization status
modulates endometrial microvascular complexity and trophoblast outgrowth in gelatin
methacryloyl hydrogels” in the journal npj Women’s Health with Dr. Samantha Zambuto and the
Harley Lab at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. The work was published open-
access and can be downloaded here.
April 2024
Gabriela Nicole Hislop Gomez ’26, Angel Rodriguez ’24, and Sabrina Woodward ’25 gave
platform presentations at the Capitol of Texas Undergraduate Research Conference (CTURC)
hosted at UT Austin. Their presentations were the result of work conducted in the bioprinting
laboratory of Assistant Professor of Physics Cody Crosby.

--- Page 8 of 17 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
March 2024
Assistant Professor of Physics Cody Crosby co-authored “Fabrication and Characterization of
Quad-Component Bioinspired Hydrogels to Model Elevated Fibrin Levels in Central Nervous
Tissue Scaffolds” in the journal Gels with Dr. Dany Munoz-Pinto and his undergraduate laboratory
at Trinity University. The work was published open-access and can be downloaded here.
Gabriela Nicole Hislop Gomez ’26, Noor Nazeer ’24, and Angel Rodriguez ’24 presented their
research talks at the Texas Academy of Science (TAS) 2024 Annual Meeting hosted at UT Permian
Basin in Odessa. Noor and Angel were awarded first place in the chemistry/biochemistry and
physics/engineering sections, respectively. Their presentations were the result of work conducted
in the bioprinting laboratory of Assistant Professor of Physics Cody Crosby.
February 2024
Assistant Professor of Physics Cody Crosby published a review titled “Open-source extrusion 3D
bioprinters: Trends and recommendations” in the journal Bioprinting. The publication evaluates
the latest syringe extruders that have been designed to extrude bio-inks and offers concrete
recommendations to ensure that this technology remains inexpensive and open-source. The
process involved building and testing the five most popular designs available in the literature, as
seen in Figure 2. The paper can be accessed for free for 50 days here.

--- Page 9 of 17 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Assistant Professor of Physics Cody Crosby, alongside three outstanding Southwestern alumni
and current students (Domenic Cordova ’23, Angel Rodriguez ’24, and Nina Woodward ’24),
published an article in HardwareX that demonstrated the development of an open-source
bioprinting extruder for Ender-series 3D printers. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ohx.2024.e00510
November 2023
Five students presented four talks at the Texas Undergraduate Mathematics Conference (TUMC),
and four more students attended. The conference was held at Stephen F. Austin State University
in Nacogdoches, Texas, on October 27-28, 2023. Adrianna Flores-Vivas ’24 presented “Wolf
Reintegration in Yellowstone National Park.” Ashley Odell ’24 and Madison Williams ’24
presented “Does Money Really Buy Happiness?”. Blue Goodson ’24 presented “The Mathematical
Artistry of Portrait Making.” Johanna Campbell ’24 presented “To the Heart of the Milky Way.”
The speakers gave preliminary presentations of their mathematics capstone projects under the
supervision of Associate Professor of Mathematics Therese Shelton. Associate Professor of
Physics Mark Bottorf co-supervised Cambell’s. Shelton also moderated two sessions of student
talks. Zoe Kincaid ’24 attended, and first-year S-STEM/EQUIP students Amanda
Mejia ’27, Juliana Elizondo ’27, and Alyanna Martinez ’27 also attended. The TUMC is partially
supported by the National Science Foundation grant DMS-2226539. The Atkin Junior
Professorship in Mathematics for Assistant Professor of Mathematics Noelle Sawyer provided
funding.

--- Page 10 of 17 ---

Noor Nazeer ’24 and Nicole Hislop ’26 presented their work with Assistant Professor of
Physics Cody Crosby October 20-21 at the Gulf Coast Undergraduate Research Symposium
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
(GCURS), hosted on Rice University’s campus. Both platform presentations, entitled “Synthesizing
Biomaterial Inks to Determine Significant Printing Parameters,” earned complimentary reviews
from the graduate student judging panel.
October 2023
Assistant Professor of Physics Cody Crosby and four of his FSP research students— Nicole Hislop
’26, Noor Nazeer ’25, Angel Rodriguez ’24, and Nina Woodward ’25 — attended the 2023
Biomedical Engineering Society (BMES) Annual Meeting, held October 11-14 in Seattle,
Washington. They presented two posters focused on the development of a novel biomaterial ink
for simulating brain parenchyma tissue and the fabrication of a syringe extruder for Ender series
3D printers (the “Enderstruder”). Both posters were well-attended and generated some fascinating
discussions.
May 2023
Kristie Cheng ’23 and Angel Rodriguez ’24 presented their work with Assistant Professor of
Physics Cody Crosby on March 3-4 at the 2023 Texas Academy of Sciences (TAS) Annual Meeting
hosted at San Angelo State in San Angelo, Texas. Cheng presented a talk entitled “Printability of
biomaterial inks to mimic the blood-brain barrier,” and Rodriguez presented a talk entitled

--- Page 11 of 17 ---

“Engineering an ultra-low-cost open-source 3D bioprinter from a Creality Ender 3 FDM 3D
Printer”. Both talks were well-attended and received great questions from the audience.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
March 2023
Domenic Cordova ’23 and Nina Woodward ’25 presented their work with Assistant Professor of
Physics Cody Crosby on March 4 at the Capitol of Texas Undergraduate Research Conference
(CTURC), hosted on UT Austin’s campus. Cordova presented a poster entitled “A Low-Cost
Affordable Bioprinter Attachment for an Ender 3 3D Printer,” and Woodward presented a poster
entitled “An ImageJ Script to Analyze the Printability of Bioprinted Lattices.” Both earned
complimentary reviews from the judging panel.
December 2022
A wonderful interdisciplinary group from Southwestern participated in the 17th Annual Texas
Undergraduate Mathematics Conference (TUMC), held this year at the University of Texas at
Austin on October 29. Carson Vogel ’23 presented “Modeling Heat Transfer.” This project is a
continuation of the 2021 and 2022 SCOPE projects under the supervision of Professor of
Physics Steven Alexander and Associate Professor of Physics Mark Bottorf. This work is part of
ongoing efforts for the eventual development of a solar energy storage cell; a problem brought
to Southwestern by Coordinator of Science Facilities and Equipment Oscar Lee Fellows. Melanie
Richey ’23 presented “Rats on the Run: Modeling of Hippocampal Cell Activity Using Plasticity.”
Her project is a continuation of a 2022 Research Experience for Undergraduates at Southern

--- Page 12 of 17 ---

Methodist University under the supervision of Dr. Katie Hedrick in collaboration with Dr. Brad E.
Pfeiffer, Department of Neuroscience, UT Southwestern Medical Center. Professor of
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Mathematics Alison Marr and Associate Professor of Mathematics Therese Shelton also
attended the conference. Marr chaired a student presentation session. Shelton supervised Vogel’s
and Richey’s current work, preliminary results for their mathematics capstone projects. Jillian
Reese ’23 and Emma Lewis ’23 joined with their counterparts from the University of North Texas-
Denton in research with Shelton and Dr. Joe Iaia, funded through the Council for Undergraduate
Research in Mathematics. Other students also attended: Oliver Johnson ’23, Jess Kazmir ’23,
Lauren Calzado ’23, Rowan Via ’23, Kathryn Altman ’24, and Aidan Bujanda-Moore ’23. Majors and
minors among our student attendees included Mathematics, Computational Mathematics,
Physics, Economics, Education, Spanish, and Political Science.
November 2022
Assistant Professor of Physics Cody Crosby and two of his FSP research students— Domenic
Cordova ’23 and Noah Pyles ’23 — attended the Great Plains Biomaterials Day in Lawrence,
Kansas, on November 4, 2022. They presented two rapid-fire talks focused on developing a novel
biomaterial ink for the blood-brain barrier and the fabrication of a low-cost Ender-3 bioprinter.
Only 5 of the 35 submissions were selected for rapid-fire talks at the conference.
October 2022

--- Page 13 of 17 ---

A wonderful interdisciplinary group from Southwestern participated in the 17th Annual Texas
Undergraduate Mathematics Conference (TUMC), held this year at the University of Texas at
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Austin on October 29. Carson Vogel ’23 presented “Modeling Heat Transfer.” This project is a
continuation of the 2021 and 2022 SCOPE projects under the supervision of Professor of Physics
Steven Alexander and Associate Professor of Physics Mark Bottorf. This work is part of ongoing
efforts for the eventual development of a solar energy storage cell; a problem brought to
Southwestern by Coordinator of Science Facilities and Equipment Oscar Lee Fellows. Melanie
Richey ’23 presented “Rats on the Run: Modeling of Hippocampal Cell Activity Using Plasticity.”
Her project is a continuation of a 2022 Research Experience for Undergraduates at Southern
Methodist University under the supervision of Dr. Katie Hedrick in collaboration with Dr. Brad E.
Pfeiffer, Department of Neuroscience, UT Southwestern Medical Center. Professor of Mathematics
Alison Marr and Associate Professor of Mathematics Therese Shelton also attended the
conference. Marr chaired a student presentation session. Shelton supervised Vogel’s and Richey’s
current work, preliminary results for their mathematics capstone projects. Jillian Reese ’23 and
Emma Lewis ’23 joined with their counterparts from the University of North Texas-Denton in
research with Shelton and Dr. Joe Iaia, funded through the Council for Undergraduate Research in
Mathematics. Other students also attended: Oliver Johnson ’23, Jess Kazmir ’23, Lauren Calzado
’23, Rowan Via ’23, Kathryn Altman ’24, and Aidan Bujanda-Moore ’23. Majors and minors among
our student attendees included Mathematics, Computational Mathematics, Physics, Economics,
Education, Spanish, and Political Science.
Assistant Professor of Physics Cody Crosby and four of his FSP research students— Kristie Cheng
’23, Domenic Cordova ’23, Noah Pyles ’23, and Angel Rodriguez ’24— attended the 2022
Biomedical Engineering Society (BMES) Annual Meeting, held October 12-15 in San Antonio,
Texas. They presented two posters focused on the development of a novel biomaterial ink for the
blood-brain barrier and the fabrication of a low-cost Ender-3 bioprinter. Both posters were well-
attended by other conference-goers and generated some insightful and helpful discussions.

--- Page 14 of 17 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
May 2022
Jonathan Smart ’23 presented his work with Assistant Professor of Physics Cody Crosby titled
“Quantifying the Printability of Biomaterial Inks” on April 23 at the Heart of Texas Undergraduate
Research Conference sponsored by Baylor Undergraduate Research in Science & Technology.
November 2021
Assistant Professor of Physics Cody Crosby gave a poster presentation titled “Phototunable
Interpenetrating Polymer Network Hydrogels Stimulate iPSC-EP Vasculogenesis” at the Tissue
Engineering and Regenerative Medicine International Society 6th World Congress, held virtually
November 15–19.
September 2021
The lab of Assistant Professor of Physics Cody Crosby was recently featured in a KXAN News
story, which was picked up by NBC affiliates in Denver, Colorado, and Albuquerque, New Mexico.

--- Page 15 of 17 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
April 2021
Business and biology major Andrew Vergote ’21 gave a talk titled “Novel Bioinks: The Gateway to
Bioprinting Complex Biological Tissues” at the 2021 BBB South Central Virtual Regional
Convention. The talk resulted from research that Vergote completed with Assistant Professor of
Physics Cody Crosby in spring 2021. They plan to continue this research as a funded Faculty–
Student Project this summer.
Assistant Professor of Physics Cody Crosby presented “Phototunable Interpenetrating Polymer
Network Hydrogels Stimulate iPSC-EP Vasculogenesis” during two Rapid-Fire Sessions, which
feature 10-minute talks, at the Rock Stars of Regenerative Engineering Conference and the Annual
Meeting of the Society for Biomaterials, which were held virtually April 19–23, 2021.
Physics and mathematics major Gerardo Gonzalez ’22 gave a talk at the 2021 spring meeting of
the American Physical Society (Texas Section) titled “Transition Probabilities for a Relativistic One-
Electron Atom.” Most of the research presented during this talk resulted from a 2019 SCOPE
project that Gonzalez completed with Professor of Physics Steven Alexander. They are currently
working on a paper that will describe their calculations.

--- Page 16 of 17 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
January 2021
Assistant Professor of Physics Cody Crosby had his article “ Phototunable Interpenetrating
Polymer Network Hydrogels to Stimulate the Vasculogenesis of Stem Cell–Derived Endothelial
Progenitors ” accepted for publication in Acta Biomaterialia (with an impact factor of 7.242). The
preprint can be accessed at bioRxiv .
April 2020
Double major in German and physics Claire Harding ’20 earned a prestigious Fulbright Award.
The nationally competitive Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship will take Harding to Germany,
where she will integrate hands-on science learning with lessons in American cultures and the
English language. The Fulbright English Teaching Assistant (ETA) Program places recent college
graduates and young professionals as English teaching assistants in secondary schools or
universities overseas, improving foreign students’ English language abilities and knowledge of the
U.S. while increasing the U.S. student’s own language proficiency and knowledge of the host
country. ETAs also pursue individual study/research plans in addition to their teaching
responsibilities. Harding’s teacher and mentor, Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth,
deeply appreciates Harding’s contributions to the German program as a tutor and member of the
leadership team of the German Club.

--- Page 17 of 17 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
GEORGETOWN, TEXAS
512.863.6511
CONTACT