--- Page 1 of 5 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
MAJORS & MINORS
Physics
From the cosmos to cathedrals, from monsoons to movement, from brains to
black holes, students and faculty in Southwestern’s Department of Physics
study the world around, within, and beyond us.
Steve Alexander
Professor of Physics
EEMMAAIILL CCAALLLL

--- Page 2 of 5 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
With its wide scope and its status as the foundation for many scientific disciplines, physics enables
you to understand all forms of mass and energy and their interrelationships. You will explore how
the universe works—from the subatomic and molecular levels to the scale of solar systems and
galaxies—through systematic observation, theoretical modeling, and experimentation. And fulfilling
Southwestern’s innovative Paideia approach to education, physics gives you the tools to make
connections between seemingly unconnected phenomena in technologically innovative and
artistically creative ways. How is DNA related to the dust swirling about a star? How does the
strumming of a guitar or the darkly dramatic register of a tenor trombone behave like a wave
traveling within the depths of the ocean or the tremors of an earthquake? You will develop the
intellectual and philosophical curiosity to understand first physical principles—foundational
concepts that lead to the scientific discoveries that shape our world and drive the technological
advances that help improve our lives.
With specialties in geophysics, atmospheric physics, mathematics, and quantum physics,
our award-winning faculty offer a rich array of courses, including earth and climate science,
classical mechanics, and quantum physics. If your passion is for engineering, you can explore the

--- Page 3 of 5 ---

field in our three-year, dual-degree Applied Physics Pre-Engineering Pathway. You will also have
the remarkable opportunity to use the Fountainwood Observatory for research and coursework.
Thanks to a generous gift by Max Allen, a local engineer, builder, and amateur astronomer, our
observatory houses a research-quality reflecting telescope complete with a digital CCD camera that
enables you to for view and process images on your computer.
AFTER SOUTHWESTERN
Featured Alumni Stories
From Southwestern to the Stars
An alumna’s journey to the depths of the universe.
READ FULL STORY
 
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors

--- Page 4 of 5 ---

EXPLORE SOUTHWESTERN
Physics News
SSEEEE FFUULLLL LLIISSTTAdds Engineering to Wide Lineup of Majors and
Minors
Located on the northern edge of Central Texas’ “Silicon Hills” innovation hub and rooted in the
liberal arts, Southwestern’s new engineering program will prepare students to tackle 21st century
problems.
READ FULL STORY
 
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors

--- Page 5 of 5 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
GEORGETOWN, TEXAS
512.863.6511
CONTACT