--- Page 1 of 9 ---

4/2/26, 2:30 PM CoursesMenu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
KINESIOLOGY
Courses
KINESIOLOGY FITNESS AND RECREATIONAL ACTIVITY
48-112 Explorations in Kinesiology
This course will introduce students to the field of kinesiology including fundamental
components of health, wellness, and physical activity. Additional topics will include
the history, future, and professional opportunities within the sub-disciplines: exercise
physiology, biomechanics, sports nutrition, and motor behavior. Contributes to
Applied Movement & Sport Studies, Exercise & Sport Studies, and Spanish for
Healthcare Professions Certificate.
48-121 Structural Kinesiology
This laboratory course will provide an opportunity for students to develop an applied
understanding of human anatomy and physiology with a focus on the musculoskeletal
system as it relates to kinesiology, health, and wellness. Strongly encouraged to be
taken concurrently with 48-123. Contributes to Applied Movement & Sport Studies,
Exercise & Sport Studies, Health Studies and Neuroscience. (Fall and Spring) (NS)
48-123 Intro to Human Anatomy & Physiology
This course will provide an overview of human anatomy and physiology with a
particular focus on organ systems and functions related to kinesiology, exercise, and
health and wellness. Strongly encouraged to be taken concurrently with 48-121.
Contributes to Applied Movement & Sport Studies, Exercise & Sport Studies, Health
Studies, Neuroscience, and Spanish for Healthcare Professions Certificate. (Fall and
Spring) (NS)
https://www.southwestern.edu/kinesiology/courses/ 1/9

--- Page 2 of 9 ---

4/2/26, 2:30 PM Courses48-182 Methods of Coaching
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
This course presents the theories and techniques of coaching selected individual and
team sports in educational and recreational settings. Contributes to Applied
Movement & Sport Studies and Exercise & Sport Studies.
48-192 Philosophy of Coaching
This course focuses on developing general and sport-specific coaching philosophies.
Topics include coaching roles, team management, relationships with constituency
groups, various philosophies and theories, as well as the importance of coaching
tenets. Contributes to Applied Movement & Sport Studies and Exercise & Sport
Studies.
48-204 Expert Performance in Sports
Exploration of the factors that elevate athletes to the pinnacle of their disciplines. This
course delves into the psychology, training, technical mastery, and professional ethics
that contribute to the success of elite athletes. Through a comprehensive study of
renowned sports figures and cutting-edge research, students will develop a deep
understanding of the multifaceted aspects that drive exceptional athletic achievement.
48-214 Research Methods in Kinesiolog
This course covers the basic concepts of research methods used in the discipline of
kinesiology. It is designed to help students think critically, to give students hands-on
experiences with research design, data analysis and interpretation, and to report
results to a professional audience. Contributes to Data Analytics, Data Science, and
Exercise and Sport Studies. Prerequisite: Mathematics 52-114 or permission of
instructor. (Fall and Spring) (NS) (WA)
48-224 Care & Prevention of Athletic Injuries
This course provides an overview of allied health professions, common sport and
fitness-related injuries/conditions, preventative measures, and primary means of
treatment for these injuries. Topics covered include epidemiology, athletic
injuries/conditions, injury prevention variables, and healthcare ethics. In addition, the
course discusses essential prevention, evaluation, and care techniques for the most
common injuries in the athletic setting. Hands-on skills including splinting, taping, and
https://www.southwestern.edu/kinesiology/courses/ 2/9

--- Page 3 of 9 ---

4/2/26, 2:30 PM Coursesbracing will be taught. Students must complete observation hours with a local licensed
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
athletic trainer during the semester. Contributes to Applied Movement & Sport
Studies and Exercise & Sport Studies. Prerequisite: Kinesiology 48-121 or permission
of instructor. (Spring)
48-234 Health and Fitness Concepts
Students are presented current scientific information concerning the roles of physical
activity, nutrition, and life choices in healthy living. Emphasis is placed on
incorporating this information into a lifestyle that will produce lifelong optimal health.
In addition, issues related to the impact of health-related diseases on society are
discussed. Contributes to Applied Movement & Sport Studies, Exercise & Sport
Studies, Health Studies, and Spanish for Healthcare Professions Certificate. (Fall and
Spring) (NS)
48-244 Stress Management
This course is designed to provide methods and content whereby students may
discover their stressors and assemble appropriate tools to help them avoid, alleviate,
or rebound from stress more effectively. This class will expose the students to a
holistic approach to stress management with an emphasis on the relationship between
lifestyle habits and health. Students will learn both cognitive skills and relaxation
techniques with the intention of preventing and/or alleviating the physical symptoms
of stress. This interactive course will consist of both lecture and lab. Contributes to
Exercise and Sport Studies, and Health Studies.
48-251 Integrative Approach Human A & P I
This laboratory course will provide students with an opportunity to design, execute,
and analyze experiments which examine the structure and function of the human
body. Experiments and activities include application and critical evaluation of human
anatomy and physiology in health and disease corresponding with the topics in Human
Anatomy and Physiology I. Also Biology 50-251. Contributes to Health Studies.
Prerequisites: Kinesiology 48-123/121. To be taken concurrently with 48-253. (Fall)
(NS)
48-253 Human Anatomy & Physiology I
https://www.southwestern.edu/kinesiology/courses/ 3/9

--- Page 4 of 9 ---

4/2/26, 2:30 PM CoursesThis is the first of a two-course sequence in the study of human anatomy and
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
physiology. This course is a detailed, systematic study of the structure and function of
the human body with an additional focus on integrative physiology. This first course
specifically examines cells, tissue histology, and the detailed anatomy and physiology
of the nervous, endocrine, integumentary, skeletal, muscular, cardiovascular, and
lymphatic systems. Integrative topics include homeostasis, control systems, reflexes,
body movement control, and blood pressure. Also Biology 50-253. Contributes to
Health Studies. Prerequisites: Kinesiology 48-123/121. To be taken concurrently with
48-251. (Fall) (NS)
48-261 Integrative Approach Human A & P II
This laboratory course will provide students with an opportunity to design, execute,
and analyze experiments which examine the structure and function of the human
body. Experiments and activities include application and critical evaluation of human
anatomy and physiology in health and disease corresponding with the topics in Human
Anatomy and Physiology II. Also Biology 50-261. Contributes to Health Studies and
Neuroscience. Prerequisites: Kinesiology 48-253/251 or Biology 50-253/251. To be
taken concurrently with 48-263. (Spring) (NS)
48-263 Human Anatomy & Physiology II
This is the second of a two-course sequence in the study of human anatomy and
physiology. This course is a continuation of the systematic study of the structure and
function of the human body with an additional focus on integrative physiology. This
second course builds upon content from Human Anatomy and Physiology I, adding to
cell and tissue histology knowledge, and specifically examines the detailed anatomy
and physiology of the respiratory, urinary, digestive, immune, and reproductive
systems. Additional integrative topics include gas exchange and transport, fluid and
electrolyte balance, metabolism, exercise, and endocrine control of growth and
metabolism. Also Biology 50-263. Contributes to Health Studies and Neuroscience.
Prerequisites: Kinesiology 48-253/251 or Biology 50-253/251. To be taken
concurrently with 48-261. (Spring) (NS)
48-274 Fundamentals of Movement Analysis
https://www.southwestern.edu/kinesiology/courses/ 4/9

--- Page 5 of 9 ---

4/2/26, 2:30 PM CoursesAn introductory course to develop observational and analytical skills as they relate to
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
human movement. Emphasis is placed on developing a systematic approach to
analysis. Students will use these skills (with emphasis placed on video analysis) to
evaluate fundamental movement patterns including gait, jumping, throwing, catching
and striking. Contributes to Applied Movement & Sport Studies and Exercise & Sport
Studies.
48-284 Education Outreach Physical Act & Health
The purpose of this course is to build and expand on students' existing health and
physical activity knowledge and enhance their abilities to communicate that
knowledge with the general public. The course will focus on engaging the local
community with evidence based educational outreach activities to promote health and
well-being.
48-294 Comparative Physiology of Exercise
A comparative and integrative approach to athletic performance and environmental
adaptations to highlight the anatomical and physiological similarities and differences
between humans and other animal species. Contributes to Animal Studies. (NS)
48-302 Selected Topics
May be repeated with change in topic. Prerequisite: Permission of department chair.
48-304 Selected Topics
May be repeated with change in topic. Prerequisite: Permission of department chair.
48-314 Psychosocial Aspects Physical Activity
This course examines the psychosocial benefits of physical activity, specifically
focusing on the promotion and maintenance of leisure-time physical activity. Theories
of motivation, behavior change and physical activity intervention techniques as well as
the importance of exercise for mental health will also be discussed. Prerequisite
Kinesiology 48-234, and either Kinesiology 48-214, or Psychology 33-214 or Biology
50-232.
48-324 Motor Learning and Motor Control
This course is a study of the factors affecting the learning and control of motor skills.
Emphasis is given to information processing, motor programming and motor skill
https://www.southwestern.edu/kinesiology/courses/ 5/9

--- Page 6 of 9 ---

4/2/26, 2:30 PM Coursesanalysis. Study is centered upon understanding and application of conceptual
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
frameworks that include open and closed looped models. Contributes to Exercise and
Sport Studies, and Neuroscience. Prerequisite: Kinesiology 48-123/121 and
Kinesiology 48-214, or permission of instructor. (Spring) (NS)
48-334 Physiology of Exercise
This course focuses on musculoskeletal, nervous, cardiorespiratory, and endocrine
systems as they relate to aerobic and anaerobic exercise and the metabolic response.
Emphasis will be placed on the adaptations of these systems to training. Lab required.
Contributes to Exercise and Sport Studies, and Neuroscience. Prerequisites:
Kinesiology 48-123/121, and Kinesiology 48-214, or permission of instructor. (Fall)
(NS)
48-344 Biomechanics
This course is the study of basic anatomical and mechanical principles applied to
human movement. Emphasis is placed on kinematic and kinetic concepts and the use
of computerized movement analysis. Lab required. Contributes to Exercise and Sport
Studies. Prerequisites: Kinesiology 48-123/121 and Kinesiology 48-214, or
permission of instructor. (Spring) (NS)
48-374 Nutritional Sciences
This course examines the physiological and cellular functions of energy
macronutrients and micronutrients. Topics include metabolism and energy balance,
life cycle nutrition, nutrition for athletic performance, and the function of nutrients as
they relate to human health and disease. Prerequisite: Kinesiology 48-234, or
permission of instructor. Contributes to Applied Movement & Sport Studies, Exercise
& Sport Studies, and Health Studies. (NS)
48-394 Seminar in Kinesiology
This course is designed to investigate special topics or problems of interest in
kinesiology. Areas of study will be selected by both instructor and students with
students taking an active role as both learners and teachers. Prerequisites:
Kinesiology 48-214, and at least one of the following: Kinesiology 48-324, 48-334,
or 48-344, or permission of instructor.
https://www.southwestern.edu/kinesiology/courses/ 6/9

--- Page 7 of 9 ---

4/2/26, 2:30 PM Courses48-424 Health Promotion and Programming
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Introduction to concepts of program planning for health education in the community.
The purpose of this course is to provide students with the skills needed to develop,
implement and evaluate health promotion programs with a special emphasis on
behavior change initiatives. Prerequisite: Kinesiology 48-134 and 48-214.
48-434 Theory & Practcice Strength & Condition
An overview of strength and conditioning principles. Emphasis is placed on the
exercise sciences (including anatomy, exercise physiology, and biomechanics) and
nutrition, exercise technique, program design, organization and administration, and
testing and evaluation. The course prepares students for the nationally accredited
Certified Strength and Conditioning Specialist (CSCS) certification exam. Contributes
to Applied Movement & Sport Studies. Prerequisites: Kinesiology 48-123/121 or 48-
253/251.
48-444 Exercise Prescription
This course is the study of current practices related to fitness assessment and exercise
prescription. Emphasis is placed on the collection of data from fitness testing and the
design of personalized exercise programs. Contributes to Exercise and Sport Studies.
Prerequisites: Kinesiology 48-214 and 48-334. (Spring) (NS)
48-454 Tissue Mechanics
This is an advanced course that explores the anatomical structure and physiological
and mechanical function of tissues within the body including bone, cartilage, tendons,
ligaments, nerves and muscle. Special attention is given to mechanical testing of these
materials with application of this information to the study of injury mechanisms and
diseases of these tissues. Also Biology 50-454. Contributes to Health Studies.
Prerequisites: Kinesiology 48-123/121, and either Kinesiology 48-344 or Physics 53-
154, or permission of instructor. (NS)
48-474 Muscle Physiology
This course is designed to enhance the student's knowledge of the field of muscle
physiology. The course focuses on the functional properties of skeletal muscle as it
impacts health and performance in normal and pathological situations with specific
https://www.southwestern.edu/kinesiology/courses/ 7/9

--- Page 8 of 9 ---

4/2/26, 2:30 PM Coursesemphasis on cellular and molecular regulators of skeletal muscle adaptations.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Contributes to Exercise & Sport Studies. Prerequisite: Kinesiology 48-253/251,
Biology 50-253/251, or Biology 50-424. (NS)
48-481 Introduction to Capstone
This is the first of two courses in the research capstone sequence. In this course a
student will develop a laboratory or field-based research experience that includes
hands-on experience directed toward answering questions related to kinesiology. In
this writing-intensive course, students work directly with a faculty member to develop
a research proposal and obtain university approval for human participant research, if
necessary. Prerequisites: Kinesiology 48-214, and either 48-334 or 48-344. (Spring)
(WA)
48-483 Experiential Capstone in Kinesiology
This is the second of two courses in the capstone sequence in which the student will
complete a field-based research project as proposed in 48-481 that is designed to
provide the student a hands-on experience directed toward answering a question
related to kinesiology. Each student will formally present results of the study in oral
and written form. Prerequisites: Kinesiology 48-481. (Fall) (WA
48-493 Experimental Capstone in Kinesiology
This is the second of two courses in the capstone sequence in which the student will
complete a laboratory research project designed to provide hands-on experience
directed toward answering a question related to kinesiology. In this course, students
will collect and analyze experimental data for their capstone projects as proposed in
48-481. Each student will formally present results of the study in oral and written
form. Prerequisites: Kinesiology 48-481. (Fall) (WA)
https://www.southwestern.edu/kinesiology/courses/ 8/9

--- Page 9 of 9 ---

4/2/26, 2:30 PM CoursesMenu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
GEORGETOWN, TEXAS
512.863.6511
CONTACT
https://www.southwestern.edu/kinesiology/courses/ 9/9