--- Page 1 of 3 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Home/Education/Courses
EDUCATION
Courses
Below you will find a list of our current or recent offerings. See the course catalog for descriptions and
updated information.
40-114 Educational Technology
An examination of the role of technology to empower K-12 students to learn how to learn. This
course focuses on information literacy in the use of computer-based technology to support
student-centered teaching, learning, classroom organization and meeting technology standards.
Methods of integrating computer-based technology into elementary and secondary classroom
instruction are investigated. Google tools and other education-related applications will be
incorporated into lesson plans and used to design basic classroom Web pages, E-portfolios, and
complete Google Educator Training. Students are required to make observations in local schools.
Permission of the instructor required for non-certifying/non-Education majors. (ScS) (FALL)
40-124 Foundations & Curriculum of American Sch
An examination of the educational history of the United States. This project-based course
examines the political and philosophical foundations and curricular structure and practices of
institutional education in the United States. To accomplish this, we will explore the many images
with which American education has been portrayed and characterized, through the lenses of
diverse communities within this nation. We will examine the historical, philosophical, and popular
roots of teaching and learning, and the current perspectives, issues, and challenges facing local,
state and national educational policy and practice. Contributes to Race and Ethnicity
Studies/Allied Course. (ScS) (WA) (SPRING)
40-144 Survey of Exceptionalitiies
An introductory survey course focused on exploring the ranges of human experience of individuals
with exceptionalities (including those who are gifted and/or have learning, mental, physical,
emotional or sensory disabilities) and their families. Students explore the cross-cultural
perspectives of exceptionalities and the impact of various attitudes toward persons with
exceptionalities. Historical, legal, philosophical and contemporary issues, particularly in education,
are discussed with a major emphasis on how social responses have made an impact on the quality
of life experienced by people with exceptionalities. The course design incorporates self-directed
learning experiences and application-based activities such as dyslexia simulations and Gifted and
Talented student identification. Fifteen hours of field experience is required. Contributes to Design
Thinking. (ScS) (SPRING)
40-204 Innovative Schools
An examination of the pragmatic aspects of selected innovative schools while building an
understanding of theoretical and philosophical assumptions that create a school's mission and
ethos. The class investigates how innovations are maintained. A focus of the course is developing a
deep understanding of ways that successful schools support children with special needs, value
diversity and implement social justice. These goals will be studied in the context of progressive
pedagogy. Contributes to Design Thinking. (ScS) (FALL, ODD)
40-234 Schools, Society and Diversity
An examination of diversity in schools and society. Emphasis is on such dimensions of diversity as
culture, ethnicity, exceptionality, gender, language, sexual orientation, ability, and social class.
Diversity and implications for educational policy, curriculum and methodology will be highlighted.
The course provides students with an opportunity to think critically about values across cultures
within the United States. Contributes to Race and Ethnicity Studies/Group-Themed Course. (ScS)
(SJ)(PJ) (FALL and SPRING)
40-264 Tchng Culturally Linguistically Div Lrnr
This course provides a study of the development of language and literacy in linguistically and
culturally diverse learners. The focus is on second language acquisition and teaching strategies
that support bilingual/multilingual school-age children. Attention is given to the impact of
sociocultural, linguistic, psycholinguistic, and political factors on language development as well as
teaching models for effective second language instruction and related issues. Students will analyze
formal and informal assessment procedures and instruments used in ESL programs and use
assessment results to plan and adapt instruction. Directed observation and participation in
classrooms are an integral part of the course. Prerequisite: Sophomore standing required.
Contributes to Latin American and Border Studies, and Race and Ethnicity Studies/Allied Course.
(ScS) (FALL, EVEN ONLY)
40-274 Multicultural Children's Literature
This course provides an exploration of books of great merit for children and adolescents. Students
will examine their own identity and cultural values while having the opportunity to find and read
books that raise the understanding and appreciation of diverse cultures. Students will engage with
books that describe and illustrate issues that are relevant to marginalized communities (e.g.,
special needs, LGBT, immigration, mental illness) and explore how culture, ethnicity,
socioeconomic status, and language diversity shape literacy learning. Author/ illustrator studies,
participation in book clubs, and strategies for the use of multicultural literature in the classroom as
well as other settings are primary elements of this course. Contributes to Latin American and
Border Studies, and Race and Ethnicity Studies/Group-Themed Course. (ScS) (FALL)
40-294 Child & Curriculum Early Childhood Educ
This course is designed as an introduction to early childhood pedagogy, curriculum and settings.
Students examine typical and atypical domains and play development during and a variety of
intervention, culturally responsive, and play-based strategies. Curriculum choices made by early
childhood educators, particularly in the areas of math, science, art, music, theatre, physical
education, and health will be the primary focus. Students will have opportunities to plan, present
and evaluate lessons. Careful attention is given to developmentally appropriate practices and the
Texas Essential Knowledge and Skills (TEKS). Directed observation and participation in early
childhood classrooms (up to 2 hours per week) are an integral part of the course. (SPRING, ODD
ONLY)
40-344 Strategies for Life Skills &transition
This course examines instructional strategies effective for students who have moderate to severe
learning needs. Topics include instruction and progress monitoring of pre-academic,
communication, social, academic, and transitional skills including vocation, independent living and
leisure. Co-teaching models in both various settings is explored. Required: Field placement in a
setting serving students with significant special needs. Contributes to Design Thinking.
Prerequisites: Previous or concurrent registration in Education 40-144 is required. (ScS) (FALL,
ODD ONLY)
40-444 Differentiated Instruction Strategies
This course focuses on inclusive practices and accountability for student learning through
standards-based individualized program plans. Students examine ways that teachers differentiate
content, process, products, or the learning environment, and the importance of ongoing
assessment and flexible grouping. Topics include differentiated instructional strategies, Response
to Intervention (RtI), and co-teaching models. Contributes to Design Thinking. Required: Field-
placement in an inclusive setting serving students with special education needs. Prerequisites:
Previous or concurrent registration in Education 40-144. (ScS) (SPRING)
40-504 Teaching Soc Stud Elem & Middle Schools
Instruction will emphasize constructivist approaches and explore both the unique content and
instructional methods appropriate for teaching social studies, with special emphasis on integrated
thematic lessons and units for in-depth study of topics; multicultural curricula; interactive and
cooperative classrooms; and inquiry and problem based approaches to investigating significant
human issues. NOTE: This course is required for secondary students seeking certification in social
studies fields (e.g. History). Prerequisites: Admission to Teacher Certification, 60 credits including
12 credits in teaching content area(s). Elementary and middle school certifying students take this
course concurrently with Education 40-514. (ScS) (FALL)
40-514 Teaching Science in Elem & Middle School
A study of instructional methods in the life, physical, and earth sciences. Emphasis will be placed
on educational theory and pedagogy to promote learning science content and process skills. This
course includes field experiences in classrooms. Contributes to Environmental Studies.
Prerequisite(s) for certifying students: Completion and/or concurrent enrollment in courses
satisfying the natural science requirement, Education 40-114, 60 credits including 12 credits in
teaching content area(s), and admission to the Teacher Certification Program. Elementary and
middle school certifying students take this course concurrently with Education 40-504. Permission
of the instructor required for non-certifying students. (ScS) (FALL)
40-524 Teaching Math in Elem & Middle School
A study of concepts, problem solving, and computation strategies necessary to orchestrate a
problem-based environment for effective teaching, learning, assessment and evaluation of early
childhood through 8th-grade mathematics. Emphasis is on both learning theory and practical
application of instructional methods. This course includes field experiences in classrooms.
Prerequisites: Education 40-114, admission to Teacher Certification Program and three credits of
mathematics. Elementary and middle school certifying students take this course concurrently with
Education 40-534. (ScS) (SPRING)
40-534 Reading Methods in Elem & Mid Schools I
A study of the reading process, varied approaches to reading instruction including language
experience, shared and guided reading, integrated and thematic teaching, comprehension and
word analysis strategies including phonics content and instruction, and theories and methods
associated with emergent and bilingual literacy. Students will develop an understanding of the
characteristics of dyslexia, identification of dyslexia, and effective, multisensory strategies for
teaching students with dyslexia. Observation and teaching in schools is required. Course fees
apply. Elementary and middle school certifying students take this course concurrently with

--- Page 2 of 3 ---

Education 40-524. Prerequisite: Admission to Teacher Certification Program, Education 40-504,
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
and Education 40-514. (ScS) (SPRING)
40-564 Integrating Lang Arts Throughout Curric
An examination of children's development of language and literacy with particular emphasis on
writing instruction. Students will engage in authentic writing, exploring reading/writing
connections, as well as planning and teaching using a process approach to writing. The course
design incorporates a writing workshop, portfolio assessment, and participation in a shared writing
blog. Prerequisite: Admission to Teacher Certification Program. (ScS) (WA)
40-581 Advanced Pedagogy & Prof Devel Educ Tech
An examination of the role of technology to empower K-12 students to learn how to learn. This
course focuses on research and professional development for teachers using computer-based
technology to support student-centered teaching, learning, classroom organization, and meeting
standards. Students will research a topic of interest in educational technology, present research
and pedagogy to preservice or in-service teachers, and have a field placement in educational
technology professional development. Prerequisite: Education 40-114 and permission of the
Instructor. (ScS) (FALL and SPRING)
40-582 Adv Pedagogy & Prof Devel in Educ Techno
An examination of the role of technology to empower K-12 students to learn how to learn. This
course focuses on research and professional development for teachers using computer-based
technology to support student-centered teaching, learning, classroom organization, and meeting
standards. Students will research a topic of interest in educational technology, present research
and pedagogy to preservice or in-service teachers, and have a field placement in educational
technology professional development. Prerequisite: Education 40-114 and permission of the
Instructor. (ScS) (FALL and SPRING)
40-583 Adv Pedagogy & Prof Devel in Educ Techno
An examination of the role of technology to empower K-12 students to learn how to learn. This
course focuses on research and professional development for teachers using computer-based
technology to support student-centered teaching, learning, classroom organization, and meeting
standards. Students will research a topic of interest in educational technology, present research
and pedagogy to preservice or in-service teachers, and have a field placement in educational
technology professional development. Prerequisite: Education 40-114 and permission of the
Instructor. (ScS) (FALL and SPRING)
40-584 Adv Pedagogy & Prof Devel in Edu Techno
An examination of the role of technology to empower K-12 students to learn how to learn. This
course focuses on research and professional development for teachers using computer-based
technology to support student-centered teaching, learning, classroom organization, and meeting
standards. Students will research a topic of interest in educational technology, present research
and pedagogy to preservice or in-service teachers, and have a field placement in educational
technology professional development. Prerequisite: Education 40-114 and permission of the
Instructor. (ScS) (FALL and SPRING)
40-664 Literacy in the Content Area
Offers secondary and all-level pre-service teachers an understanding of language and literacy
processes as they apply to teaching in secondary schools. The course emphasizes reading and
writing in content areas, as well as instructional strategies to support students' literacy
development, incorporating a focus on biliteracy and supporting literacy in second language
acquisition. It focuses on ways that reading, writing, speaking, and listening are developed and
used in learning discipline-specific curriculum. We will also examine how literacy has become
politicized and transformed both nationally and globally. The course will include a field-based
component. Course fees apply. Prerequisites: Admission to the Teacher Certification Program or
permission of instructor. (ScS) (FALL)
40-674 Teaching Praxis
Students in this course will continue to develop an inquiry stance in their practice through the
systematic analysis of teaching and learning, observing and supporting in secondary classrooms.
Grounded in a theory of teacher education for social justice that encourages practitioners to
challenge educational inequities by inquiring into practice, this course advances teacher
candidates' skills in planning, delivering, assessing and analyzing instruction that promotes pupil
learning and enhances effective teaching strategies. Praxis is both reflection and action for positive
change. Observations and teaching in local schools are required. Prerequisites: Admission to
Teacher Certification Program. (ScS) (SPRING)
40-681 Adv Study & Practicum in Pedagogy and Th
Students in this course will continue exploring an academic area of interest from a previously
completed course (PCC). Students will work with a faculty member teaching the PCC and/or
leading related inservice professional development. The student will engage in further research
about pedagogy, theory, and professional development in the area of interest. In addition to a
deep investigation into the literature about the area of interest, this innovative course requires
students to present in the PCC, plan with the faculty member, present in other classes at SU,
provide professional development for local teacher, present to SU faculty, and/or present at the
SU Creative Works Symposium. (ScS) (FALL and SPRING)
40-682 Adv Study Practicum in Pedagogy & Theory
Students in this course will continue exploring an academic area of interest from a previously
completed course (PCC). Students will work with a faculty member teaching the PCC and/or
leading related inservice professional development. The student will engage in further research
about pedagogy, theory, and professional development in the area of interest. In addition to a
deep investigation into the literature about the area of interest, this innovative course requires
students to present in the PCC, plan with the faculty member, present in other classes at SU,
provide professional development for local teacher, present to SU faculty, and/or present at the
SU Creative Works Symposium. (ScS) (FALL and SPRING)
40-683 Adv Study Practicium Pedagogy & Theory
Students in this course will continue exploring an academic area of interest from a previously
completed course (PCC). Students will work with a faculty member teaching the PCC and/or
leading related inservice professional development. The student will engage in further research
about pedagogy, theory, and professional development in the area of interest. In addition to a
deep investigation into the literature about the area of interest, this innovative course requires
students to present in the PCC, plan with the faculty member, present in other classes at SU,
provide professional development for local teacher, present to SU faculty, and/or present at the
SU Creative Works Symposium. (ScS) (FALL and SPRING)
40-684 Adv Study Practicum Pedagogy & Theory
Students in this course will continue exploring an academic area of interest from a previously
completed course (PCC). Students will work with a faculty member teaching the PCC and/or
leading related inservice professional development. The student will engage in further research
about pedagogy, theory, and professional development in the area of interest. In addition to a
deep investigation into the literature about the area of interest, this innovative course requires
students to present in the PCC, plan with the faculty member, present in other classes at SU,
provide professional development for local teacher, present to SU faculty, and/or present at the
SU Creative Works Symposium. (ScS) (FALL and SPRING)
40-700 Teaching for Social Justice Lab
This lab course is required to be taken during the field-based semester. Concurrent enrollment is
required in Education 40-714, 40-734, 40-444, and/or 40-764. Must be taken Pass/D/F.
40-714 Instructional Strategies
The focus of this course is on preparing pre-service teachers to teach in elementary and middle
schools and requires candidates to incorporate experiences from their practicum sites, including
lesson plan preparation and implementation, cooperative groupings, assessment, and other best
practices. This course is designed to provide teacher education candidates with an opportunity to
study, reflect, question, become knowledgeable about and develop skills in instructional methods
while applying and practicing these methods in a collaborative, formative, and constructive setting.
This course is a component of the teacher preparation program which emphasizes the themes of
diversity, reflection, collaboration and technology and is designed as a methods class to be taken in
the field-based block concurrently with Education 40-734, Education 40-744, and Education 40-
700 Teaching for Social Justice Lab. Please note: the starting date for this field-based course,
offered only in the fall, is aligned with the beginning of the public school starting date in the
Georgetown ISD, and precedes the starting date for classes at Southwestern. Prerequisites:
Admission to the Teacher Certification Program. (ScS) (FALL)
40-734 Reading Methods in Elem & Mid School II
A field-based study of varied instructional methods and formal and informal assessments in
reading. This course is taught in elementary and middle school settings and involves extensive
observation and participation. Focus is on lesson planning and implementation, and application of
assessment procedures. Must be taken with Education 40-524, 40-744, and Education 40-700
Teaching for Social Justice Lab. Continued development of student's professional portfolio is
integral to all three courses. Please note: the starting date for field-based courses, offered only in
the fall, is aligned with the beginning of public school in the Georgetown ISD, and precedes the
starting date for classes at Southwestern. Prerequisites: Admission to the Teacher Certification
Program. (ScS) (FALL)
40-744 Positive Behavior Support
This course explores effective school-wide and classroom-based arrangements and procedures for
working with students who have moderate to severe behavior disorders. Topics include the
recognition and handling of selected psychological challenges, design and implementation of
positive behavior supports, applied behavioral analysis, social-emotional learning strategies,
trauma-sensitive approaches, restorative discipline, and collaborative problem solving. Required:
Field placement in a setting serving students with special needs. Must be taken with Education 40-
700, and one of the following: Education 40-764, or Education 40-714 & 40-734. Please note:
the starting date for field-based courses, offered only in the fall, is aligned with the beginning of
public school in the Georgetown ISD, and precedes the starting date for classes at Southwestern.
Prerequisites: Education 40-144, and admission to the Teacher Certification Program. (ScS) (WA)
(FALL)
40-764 The Secondary Teacher
A field-based study of the objectives and processes of secondary school teaching. This course will
be taught in a secondary school setting and will involve extensive observation and participation.

--- Page 3 of 3 ---

Emphasis in this course will be on the art and the act of teaching. Please note: the starting date for
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
this field-based course, offered only in the fall, is aligned with the beginning of public school in the
Georgetown ISD, and precedes the starting date for classes at Southwestern. Must be taken with
Education 40-744 and Education 40-700 Teaching for Social Justice Lab. Prerequisites: Education
40-664, and admittance to Teacher Certification Program. (ScS) (FALL)
40-804 Student Teaching in Elem & Middle School
Supervised teaching in the public elementary schools. Prerequisites: Senior standing, completion
of all other course work, admittance to student teaching. Must be taken Pass/D/F. The student
will take Education 40-814 concurrently with student teaching. Also Music Education 77-804,
808. (ScS)
40-808 Student Teaching in Elem & Middle School
Supervised teaching in the public elementary schools. Prerequisites: Senior standing, completion
of all other course work, admittance to student teaching. Must be taken Pass/D/F. The student
will take Education 40-814 concurrently with student teaching. Also Music Education 77-804,
808. (ScS)
40-814 Classroom Organization and Management
A seminar style course exploring approaches to successfully organizing and managing a classroom.
Positive approaches to time management, materials organization, curriculum selection and
management, scheduling and classroom discipline will be investigated. Texas Education Agency
ethics training, legal issues, and parent conferences are integrated into the course. The content is
designed for relevance to the student teaching experience. A Student Teacher Support Meeting for
student support will be scheduled separately with the respective Student Teaching University
Supervisors, along with students enrolled in the course. Course fees apply. Concurrent enrollment
in student teaching is required (ScS) (FALL and SPRING)
40-824 Student Teaching in the Secondary School
Observation and supervised teaching in the public secondary schools. Prerequisites: Senior
standing, completion of all other course work and admittance to student teaching. Must be taken
Pass/D/F. The student will take Education 40-814 concurrently with student teaching. Also Music
Education 77-804, -808. (ScS)
40-828 Student Teaching in the Secondary School
Observation and supervised teaching in the public secondary schools. Prerequisites: Senior
standing, completion of all other course work and admittance to student teaching. Must be taken
Pass/D/F. The student will take Education 40-814 concurrently with student teaching. Also Music
Education 77-804, -808. (ScS)
40-844 Student Teaching Generic Special Educati
Supervised teaching in the public elementary or secondary schools. Prerequisites: Senior standing,
completion of all other course work, admittance to student teaching. Must be taken Pass/D/F. The
student will take Education 40-814 concurrently with student teaching. (ScS)
40-964 Senior Seminar
This course fulfills the capstone requirement for Education majors for the Bachelor of Arts degree.
02-201 Fostering Collaborative Opportunities in the Natural Sciences
This seminar is designed to foster a sense of community among student researchers, students
seeking a research experience, and the faculty of the Natural Sciences Division. Course readings,
discussions, and assignments will focus on providing students with a better understanding of the
scientific process and the importance of collaboration in furthering scientific discovery. May be
repeated for credit.
GEORGETOWN, TEXAS | 512.863.6511