--- Page 1 of 3 ---

Educationabout:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.southwestern.edu%2Feduca...
southwestern.edu
Education
4–5 minutes
We believe that a strong foundation in the liberal arts is critical to
the preparation of excellent teachers.
The Department offers two majors in Education: Bachelors of Arts
in Education and Bachelors of Science in Education (BSEd.). The
BSEd. is for students seeking a Texas Teaching Certificate.
Education courses are designed to provide both a philosophical
and theoretical basis for teaching and other education careers. We
expose Education students to teaching methodology that is based
on the latest research and emphasize developmental
characteristics of the learner, learning theories, diverse learners,
and assessment. Our professors teach and model analytic,
creative and evaluative thinking skills in order to develop lifelong
learners who are skilled in the problem solving necessary for the
modern classroom. Strong, early field experiences and a closely
supervised student teaching placement are integral components of
the program.
After graduation, during the critical first year of teaching, the
Education Department provides assistance through the Semester
of Support (S.O.S.) program. Graduates return to campus to
exchange ideas, receive technical assistance from the Department
faculty, and engage in evaluation of the Teacher Certification
1 of 3 3/26/2026, 9:30 PM

--- Page 2 of 3 ---

Educationabout:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.southwestern.edu%2Feduca...
Program. S.O.S. also provides on-site technical support to
graduates during their first year of teaching.
Although Education Degrees are awarded by, certification is awarded by the State of Texas. In
completing the requirements for their respective degree programs,
students must meet the requirements necessary for Texas teacher
certification as well as the requirements of Southwestern.
Students seeking elementary/middle school certification major
in Education and choose either Elementary (EC-grade 6) or Middle
(grade 4-grade 8) level teacher certification. All EC-grade 6
students receive dual certification in core subjects and special
education. Students who major in Education and who are seeking
the 4-8 certification must choose a content area from the following:
language arts, math, science, math/science combination or social
studies.
Students seeking secondary or all-level certification typically
major in Education and in addition must complete at least 24 credit
hours of study in a subject field such as history, English,
mathematics, etc. Secondary certification students frequently opt
to go for a double major or second degree in their content field.
The exception to this is that Music Education students must major
in Music Education rather than Education. Specific information on
courses required for elementary, middle, secondary and all-level
certification programs is listed in the following pages.
Completing the Bachelor of Science in Education may require an
extra semester of work. In fall of the senior year, placement in a
field-based program will require students to return to Georgetown
prior to the beginning of public school, which precedes the start of
2 of 3 3/26/2026, 9:30 PM

--- Page 3 of 3 ---

Educationabout:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.southwestern.edu%2Feduca...classes.
The capstone experience for Education majors consists of
successful completion of the student teaching requirements.
3 of 3 3/26/2026, 9:30 PM