--- Page 1 of 21 ---

HomeM/eEnduucationS/eNaorctahble Faculty & Student Achievements Apply Visit Majors & Minors
EEDDUUCCAATTIIOONN
Notable Faculty & Student Achievements
MMaarrcchh 22002266
Professor of Education Alicia Moore, Assistant Professor of Education Marilyn Nicol, and
Professor of Education Michael Kamen presented “Healing Through Play, Stories, and
Literature: Supporting Children’s Grief, Loss, and Resilience in Early Childhood
Classrooms” at the 2026 Live and On-Demand Conference of the International Play
Association (IPA-USA).
Duncan Chair and Professor of Mathematics Fumiko Futamura, along with her
collaborator, artist Jiabao Li, gave a talk at The Association for the Study of Play (TASP)
52nd annual conference, organized by Professor of Education Michael Kamen and held
at. The talk, titled “Math/Art Collaboration Through Play: A
Report From the Triangle Program,” focused on the role of play in our interdisciplinary
collaboration, which ultimately culminated in the idea of the math playground.
Professor of Education Michael Kamen is the president of The Association for the Study
of Play (TASP) and organized the 52nd annual conference at Southwestern. TASP is the
premier professional organization in academia dedicated to interdisciplinary research and
theory construction concerning play throughout the world. Presently, the Association
publishes a quarterly newsletter titled Play Review and an annual volume titled Play &
Culture Studies. The Association’s broad multidisciplinary focus includes the fields of
anthropology, biology, communication studies, cultural studies, dance, ecology,
education, ethology, folklore, history, kinesiology, leisure studies, musicology, philosophy,
psychology, recreation, sociology, and the arts.

--- Page 2 of 21 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
FFeebbrruuaarryy 22002266
Professor of Education Michael Kamen was an invited speaker at the January Clearview
Sudbury School monthly community gathering in Austin. He presented “Play and
Learning,” highlighting his recent and ongoing research.
Professor of Education Michael Kamen and Associate Professor of Curriculum Instruction
and Learning Sciences at Texas A&M-Corpus Christi Debra Plowman published “To
Algorithm or not to Algorithm” in the Fall 2025 Newsletter of the International
Consortium for Research in Science and Mathematics Education. Their quarterly column
tells the ongoing story of the fictional character, Ian Quiry, as he studies and struggles to
learn how to be an effective elementary school STEM teacher. The column can be read
here, starting on page five of the newsletter.
NNoovveemmbbeerr 22002255
Assistant Professor of Education Marilyn Nicol and her colleague Bethanie Pletcher of
Texas A&M University–Corpus Christi released the premiere episode of their podcast Ms.
Behaving in Literacy. The episode featured an introduction to the concept and purpose of
the podcast, to explore politics of literacy education policies and research through the
lens of humor. The co-hosts also interviewed attendees of the Association of Literacy
Education and Research annual conference in Oklahoma City, who shared their favorite
experiences at the conference. The podcast can be seen here. The next episode will
feature highlights from the most recent publication of the academic journal Literacy
Research and Instruction.

--- Page 3 of 21 ---

Education majors Tiffany Ashcraft ’27, Emma Bethke ’27 (in absentia), Jonas Eaton ’26,
Sydney Jackson ’27, Elisa Keese ’27, Ava Knez ’27, Catherine Matthews ’27, and Abigail
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Shuvalov ’27 presented at CAST (the Texas Science Teachers Conference) in Dallas with
Professor of Education Michael Kamen and Assistant Professor of Education Alexandrea
Melgoza. The session, “Hands-on Science Activities Presented by Preservice Teachers,”
organized by Dr. Kamen, also included presentations by preservice teachers from The
University of Houston–Downtown and The University of North Texas–Dallas.
Assistant Professor of Education Marilyn Nicol and her colleague Bethanie Pletcher of
Texas A&M University–Corpus Christi published their article, titled “A collaborative and
comprehensive model of professional support for implementing interactive writing in
preschool,” in the Journal of Early Childhood Teacher Education. The research report
explored professional support and instructional coaching for the implementation of
writing instruction in early elementary. The abstract can be read here.
Assistant Professor of Education Marilyn Nicol attended the annual national conference
of the Association for Literacy Education and Research, where she presented preliminary
findings from her current research study, titled “Teaching with Multicultural Literature
during Troubled Times: A Community Engaged Learning Project.” She also hosted the
inaugural fireside chat for the Teacher Education and Professional Learning special
interest group with her colleague Bethanie Pletcher of Texas A&M University–Corpus
Christi. They discussed their publication, titled “Reclaiming the Pen: An Exploration of
Interactive Writing in the Primary Grades.”
SSeepptteemmbbeerr 22002255
Professor of Education Michael Kamen and Associate Professor of Curriculum Instruction
and Learning Sciences at Texas A&M-Corpus Christi Debra Plowman published “Data
Charts: Making Connections?” in the Summer 2025 newsletter of the International
Consortium for Research in Science and Mathematics Education. Their quarterly column
tells the ongoing story of the fictional character, Ian Quiry, as he studies and struggles to
learn how to be an effective elementary school STEM teacher. The summer column can be
read here, starting on page ten of the newsletter.

--- Page 4 of 21 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
JJuullyy 22002255
Education major Sydney Jackson ’27 was selected to receive the Student Travel Award by
the International Consortium for Research in Science and Mathematics Education
(ICRSME). Posted in the spring newsletter, “the ICRSME Student Travel Award is presented
to one graduate or undergraduate student to offset the cost of attending an ICRSME
consultation. This year’s recipient is Sydney Jackson from. Sydney
was able to attend her first ICRSME consultation in Valladolid and share her research with
other scholars in the field.” A photo of Sydney receiving the award can be seen here, on
page 10 of the newsletter.
Professor of Education Michael Kamen and Associate Professor of Curriculum Instruction
and Learning Sciences at Texas A&M-Corpus Christi Debra Plowman published “Math is a
4-Letter Word” in the Spring 2025 newsletter of the International Consortium for Research
in Science and Mathematics Education. Their quarterly column tells the ongoing story of
the fictional character, Ian Quiry, as he studies and struggles to learn how to be an
effective elementary school STEM teacher. The spring column can be read here, starting
on page six of the newsletter.
JJuunnee 22002255
Assistant Professor of Education Raquel Sáenz Ortiz and SU alumna Rebecca Ramirez
’24 published an article titled “An undue burden: The impact of censorship laws on Ethnic
Studies teachers in Texas” in the Ethnic Studies Pedagogies Journal. This article analyzes
conversations and surveys with middle and high school ethnic studies teachers in Texas
about the impact of censorship legislation (Senate Bill 3, passed in 2021) on their
teaching.
MMaayy 22002255
Assistant Professor of Education Raquel Sáenz Ortiz and SU alumnae Rebecca
Ramirez ’24 and Laura Carrasco Torres ’25 published an article titled “Centering
community in fugitive pedagogy: Pláticas with Chicana Ethnic Studies teachers”
in Chicana/Latina Studies: The Journal of Mujeres Activas en Letras y Cambio Social. This
article analyzes the impact of censorship legislation (Senate Bill 3, passed in 2021) on

--- Page 5 of 21 ---

middle and high school Mexican American Studies teachers.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
AApprriill 22002255
Assistant Professor of Education Marilyn Nicol published an article with her colleague Dr.
Bethanie Pletcher of Texas A&M University–Corpus Christi, titled “Teaching Writing Skills
Alongside the Writing Process: Interactive Writing in the Prekindergarten Classroom.” The
article was published in The Reading Teacher and highlights case study findings alongside
practical tips for implementing interactive writing in primary grades. The article can be
read here.
MMaarrcchh 22002255
Professor of Education Michael Kamen and education major Sydney Jackson ’27
presented two research sessions: “STEM and Successful Play-based Programs” at the
International Consortium for Research in Science and Mathematics Education in
Valladolid, Yucatán, México, and “Play-Based Programs: Themes for Success” at the annual
conference of The Association for the Study of Play in South Padre Island, TX.
Professor of Education Michael Kamen and Associate Professor of Curriculum Instruction
and Learning Sciences at Texas A&M-Corpus Christi Debra Plowman presented two
workshops: “Playing with Numbers: Choice, Joy, and Wonder in Mathematics Education”
at the annual conference of The Association for the Study of Play in South Padre Island,
TX, and “Playful Approaches for Learning Math: Choice, Joy, and Wonder” at the
International Consortium for Research in Science and Mathematics Education in
Valladolid, Yucatán, México.
Assistant Professor of Education Marilyn Nicol presented and conducted a workshop
titled “Experience Based Learning: A Renewed Perspective in Early Childhood Education”
at the Association for the Study of Play conference in South Padre Island, TX.

--- Page 6 of 21 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
From March 3-5, Assistant Professor of Education Alicia Moore engaged in National
Service by fulfilling her federal appointment as a member of the Board of Visitors for the
U.S. Army Command and General Staff College (CGSC). The century-long history of this
institution has played a vital role in strengthening American alliances and national
security. During the meetings, she engaged with international military officers from
Morocco, Singapore, Germany, Sweden, and Canada, two of whom shared that their
nations send only their top officers in hopes of qualifying for the prestigious
postgraduate program at the U.S. Army School of Advanced Military Studies (SAMS). Dr.
Moore provided curricular guidance and support, contributing to the ongoing
development of CGSC’s academic programs.
FFeebbrruuaarryy 22002255
Professor of Education Michael Kamen and Associate Professor of Curriculum Instruction
and Learning Sciences at Texas A&M-Corpus Christi Debra Plowman published “The 5E
Instructional Model Gets an F? Is it Time to Move On?” in the Winter 2025 newsletter of
the International Consortium for Research in Science and Mathematics Education. Their
quarterly column tells the ongoing story of the fictional character, Ian Quiry, as he studies
and struggles to learn how to be an effective elementary school STEM teacher. The
newsletter can be read here.
JJaannuuaarryy 22002255
Professor of Education Michael Kamen and Associate Professor of Curriculum Instruction
and Learning Sciences at Texas A&M-Corpus Christi Debra Plowman published “Never
Too Old to Play with Blocks” in the Fall 2024 newsletter of the International Consortium
for Research in Science and Mathematics Education. Their quarterly column tells the
ongoing story of the fictional character, Ian Quiry, as he studies and struggles to learn
how to be an effective elementary school STEM teacher. The newsletter can be read here.
Assistant Professor of Education Marilyn Nicol’s article, titled “Reclaiming the Pen: A Call

--- Page 7 of 21 ---

for the Return of Interactive Writing to the Primary-Grade Classroom,” was published in
the January/February/March issue of Literacy Today. This article explains an effective
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
method of composition instruction for early readers. The issue can be found here.
NNoovveemmbbeerr 22002244
Professor of Education Michael Kamen and education majors Sydney
Aschmann ’26, Makenzi Ducharme ’26, Hannah Pullen ’26, Annika Romeo ’26,
and Maddie Ziegler ’26 presented in person, and Annika Flora ’26, Alejandro
Gallegos ’26, and Emily Marks ’26 presented in absentia, at the Conference for the
Advancement of Science Teaching (CAST) in San Antonio. The session “Hands-on Science
Lessons Presented by Preservice Teachers” was organized by Dr. Kamen. Additional
undergraduate students, and their professors from the University of Houston – Downtown
and Texas A&M University – Corpus Christi, were co-presenters.
Assistant Professor of Education Marilyn Nicol presented two of her research projects at
the Association of Literacy Educators and Researchers Conference in Orlando, FL. The
presentations were titled “Teaching in the Context of a Sentence: Early Literacy Skills
Come Together in Interactive Writing” and “Cyrano Returns: Coaching Preservice Teachers
in a Reading Clinic.” Cyrano refers to a bug-in-ear coaching model named for Cyrano de
Bergerac.
Professor of Education Michael Kamen was an invited presenter, along with Retired
Project WILD State Coordinator Kiki Corry and Leander ISD Elementary Science
Coordinator Jennifer Kaszuba, to lead “Hike Through the Guide” for the first of the WILD
Webinar series, a professional development webinar for Project WILD facilitators.
OOccttoobbeerr 22002244
Assistant Professor of Education Marilyn Nicol had her essay, “Disrupting epistemology
and coalescing community: Disability activism on social media,” published in the Journal

--- Page 8 of 21 ---

of Literary and Cultural Disability Studies. Trends in critical disability studies have taken
issue with the absence of representations of disability beyond images of heroism or
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
charity cases. In addition, an absence of representation in cinema and literature reinforces
an existing bias that individuals with disabilities are uninteresting and have less value than
nondisabled people (Beckett et al.; Hodkinson). The article explores the frontier of
disability activism on social media as a space where new onto/epistemologies grapple
among existing biases of disability. The article is available here.
Assistant Professor of Education Raquel Sáenz Ortiz published the manuscript “Solidarity
in labor organizing: The alliance between the Black Panther Party and the United Farm
Workers,” in the Black History Bulletin (BHB), volume 87, issue 2. The manuscript examines
the collaborations between the Black Panther Party and the United Farm Workers in the
1960s and 1970s and includes a project-based lesson on solidarity in labor organizing for
a high school U.S. History course. This manuscript is part of a special issue on African
Americans and Labor.
Professor of Education Michael Kamen and Associate Professor of Curriculum Instruction
and Learning Sciences at Texas A&M-Corpus Christi Debra Plowman published
“Respecting Children’s Questions and Adapting K-W-L Charts” in the Summer 2024
newsletter of the International Consortium for Research in Science and Mathematics
Education. Their quarterly column tells the ongoing story of the fictional character, Ian
Quiry, as he studies and struggles to learn how to be an effective elementary school STEM
teacher. The newsletter can be read here.
SSeepptteemmbbeerr 22002244
Assistant Professor of Education Raquel Sáenz Ortiz attended the International Migration
Research Network (IMISCOE) annual conference in Lisbon, Portugal in July. She presented,
with Melina Bountris ’22, “Culturally responsive instructional strategies for immigrant-
origin youth in Austria,” based on research conducted while Melina was completing a
Fulbright Teaching Assistantship in Austria. She also presented, with Zehra Çolak of
Utrecht University, “Co-constructing a pedagogy of radical belonging: Pláticas on
teaching for social justice,” which is based on a chapter that has been accepted to be
published in the Handbook of Social Justice in Education. In addition, Dr. Sáenz Ortiz co-
led a workshop, titled “Towards decolonial futurities: On reimagining the university,” along
with Zehra Çolak of Utrecht University, Zakia Essanhaji of VU Amsterdam, Dounia
Bourabain of Hasselt University, and Leila Mouhib of Université libre de Bruxelles and
Université de Mons.

--- Page 9 of 21 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Assistant Professor of Education Raquel Sáenz Ortiz published the manuscript “Radical
Love: Liberatory Pedagogical Praxis for Black and Latinx Youth in an Alternative School,” in
the International Journal of Learner Diversity and Identities. The manuscript highlights a
case study conducted by Dr. Sáenz Ortiz in an alternative school in the northeastern
United States where most students were Afro-Caribbean. The article is available here.
Professor of Education Michael Kamen and his Faculty-Student-Project student, Sydney
Jackson ’27, virtually presented a poster, titled “Successful Play-Based Programs: Case
Studies,” at the International Society of Cultural-historical Activity Research Conference
2024: Inclusiveness as a Future Challenge, in Rotterdam, the Netherlands. They reported
on their analysis of twenty interviews with teachers, parents, and administrators from
three play-based programs in New York City, Oxford, UK, and Billund, Denmark.
AAuugguusstt 22002244
Professor of Education Michael Kamen is one of seven co-authors of the recently
published chapter “Teacher Educators’ Perspectives, Beliefs, and Practices,” in the book Re-
Exploring Play and Playfulness in Early Childhood Teacher Education: Narratives,
Reflections, and Practices. His section is titled “Playing to Learn and Teaching with Play in a
Science Methods Course at.” The book can be found here.
JJuunnee 22002244

--- Page 10 of 21 ---

Professor of Education Michael Kamen, Retired Project WILD State Coordinator Kiki
Corry, and Leander ISD Elementary STEM Coordinator and Project WILD Facilitator Mark
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Corry presented “Polishing the GEMS: Improving PD through Lesson Study” at the 2024
Coordinator Tri-Conference and Training for Project WILD, WET, and Learning Tree state
coordinators and facilitators. Kamen and Corry were also invited facilitators for state
coordinators observing and collecting observation data on combined WILD, WET,
Learning Tree at a pre-conference workshop for local educators.
Professor of Education Michael Kamen and Associate Professor of Curriculum Instruction
and Learning Sciences at Texas A&M-Corpus Christi Debra Plowman published “There Are
No Word Problems in Real Life–To Keyword or Not to Keyword” in the Summer 2024
newsletter of the International Consortium for Research in Science and Mathematics
Education. Their quarterly column tells the ongoing story of the fictional character, Ian
Quiry, as he studies and struggles to learn how to be an effective elementary school STEM
teacher. The newsletter can be read here.
AApprriill 22002244
Professor of Education Michael Kamen and Assistant Professor of Curriculum Instruction
and Learning Sciences at Texas A&M-Corpus Christi Debra Plowman published a chapter
titled “Slide Rules: To the Moon and Back” in Collaboration to Advance Science &
Mathematics Education: Panamá City, Panamá, published by the International Consortium
for Research in Science and Mathematics Education. The publication can be read here.
Professor of Education Michael Kamen was elected to the position of second vice
president (becoming the first vice president and president over the following two years)
of The Association for the Study of Play (TASP). He will serve as conference chair for the
2026 TASP conference. TASP is the premier professional organization in academia
dedicated to interdisciplinary research and theory construction concerning play
throughout the world since 1973. The Association’s broad multidisciplinary focus includes
the fields of anthropology, biology, communication studies, cultural studies, dance,
ecology, education, ethnology, folklore, history, kinesiology, leisure studies, musicology,
philosophy, psychology, recreation, sociology, and the arts.

--- Page 11 of 21 ---

Graduating senior education major Leora Ammerman ’24 has earned selection for the
prestigious and nationally competitive Fulbright U.S. Student Program fellowship, to serve
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
as an English Teaching Assistant (ETA) in Spain for 2024-2025. Leora will be able to
leverage the elementary and special education certifications she’s earning at SU to be a
highly prepared ETA. Congratulations to Leora and her faculty champions!
MMaarrcchh 22002244
Professor of Education Michael Kamen and Assistant Professor of Curriculum Instruction
and Learning Sciences at Texas A&M-Corpus Christi Debra Plowman published “It’s Done
with Mirrors” in the Winter 2024 newsletter of the International Consortium for Research
in Science and Mathematics Education. Their quarterly column tells the ongoing story of
the fictional character, Ian Quiry, as he studies and struggles to learn how to be an
effective elementary school STEM teacher.
FFeebbrruuaarryy 22002244
Associate Professor of Education Alicia Moore, Visiting Professor of Education Deborah
Shepherd, and Rebecca M. Giles (University of South Alabama) published the article,
“Preparing Early Childhood Teachers to Create Inclusive Literacy,’” in English in Texas: A
Journal of the Texas Council of Teachers of English Language Arts. The essay highlights
the importance of “mirror” texts for young children, which allow students to see their
identities highlighted through books and analysis.
Professor of Education Michael Kamen presented a roundtable session, “Polishing the
Gems, Professional Development for Project WILD facilitators Through Lesson Study,” at
the Association for Science Teacher Education in New Orleans annual conference. He
discussed the results of a pilot project he conducted with Kiki Corry, former Project WILD
coordinator for the state of Texas.

--- Page 12 of 21 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
JJaannuuaarryy 22002244
Professor of Education Michael Kamen and Assistant Professor Debra Plowman (A&M -
Corpus Christi) published “Solving Word Problems with Understanding” in the Fall 2023
newsletter of the International Consortium for Research in Science and Mathematics
Education. Their quarterly column tells the ongoing story of the fictional character, Ian
Quiry, as he studies and struggles to learn how to be an effective elementary school STEM
teacher.
NNoovveemmbbeerr 22002233
Professor of Education Michael Kamen and education majors Hailey
Arrington ’25, Alexiz Quintanilla ’25, and Terri Ray ’25, presented “Hands-on Science
Lessons Presented by Preservice Teachers” at the Science Teachers Association of Texas
annual Conference for the Advancement of Science Teaching (CAST) in Houston, Texas.
Assistant Professor of Education Raquel Sáenz Ortiz, along with Rebecca Ramirez ’24 and
Aminadab Corral Arras ’24, presented a paper titled “Towards a LatCrit Youth Program
Evaluation: Tensions and New Directions” at the annual Critical Race Studies in Education
Association (CRSEA) conference in Chicago on October 26-27. This paper emerged from
FSP research conducted in the summer of 2023 to evaluate an after-school music
program in Santa Fe, NM.
SSeepptteemmbbeerr 22002233
Professor of Education Michael Kamen and Assistant Professor Debra Plowman (A&M -
Corpus Christi) had their column, “Learning to Teach Math and Science: Thoughts from an
Emerging Elementary Teacher,” accepted as an ongoing column in the quarterly
newsletter of the International Consortium for Research in Science and Mathematics
Education. It tells the ongoing story of fictional character, Ian Quiry, as he studies and
struggles to learn how to be an effective elementary school STEM teacher. The first
column is published in the Summer 2023 newsletter.

--- Page 13 of 21 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
AAuugguusstt 22002233
Assistant Professor of Education Raquel Sáenz Ortiz attended and presented her
research at the International Migration Research Network (IMISCOE) annual conference at
the University of Warsaw in Poland. The conference took place from July 3-5 this year.
Sáenz Ortiz presented a paper titled “Ethnic Studies and the fight for educational equity
for immigrant-origin youth in an era of censorship in the United States,” focusing on the
impact of censorship legislation in Texas, on a panel about institutions, educational
opportunities and in/exclusion in an international context.
Associate Professor of Education Alicia Moore has been invited to serve on the College
of Education Advisory Council based on her expertise and commitment to positively
impact their education program. Dr. Moore has humbly accepted.
MMaayy 22002233
Associate Professor and Chair of the Education Department Alicia Moore and Professor
of Education Michael Kamen presented “New Kids in the Blocks: Pedagogical Models of
Play for Social Justice” at The Association for the Study of Play annual conference. In
addition, Kamen was an invited panelist for the roundtable session “Playful Pedagogies in
Early Childhood Teacher Education: Building a Playful ECE Workforce” and presented a
research session, “Successful Play-Based Programs,” reporting on his current research.
Assistant Professor of Education Raquel Sáenz Ortiz delivered a paper at the Annual
American Educational Research Association (AERA) meeting in Chicago, April 13-16. Her
paper, “‘Separate but equal?’: Interest convergence in an era of censorship in K-12 Ethnic
Studies,” examines the impact of censorship legislation (Senate Bill 3) on high school
Ethnic Studies (Mexican American Studies and African American Studies) in Texas.

--- Page 14 of 21 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
MMaarrcchh 22002233
Allison Hentges ’24 and Education Professor Michael Kamen presented “The Reasons for
Seasons” (Allison’s King Creativity project), and Kamen and Assistant Professor Debra
Plowman (A&M Corpus Christi) presented “Slide Rules: to the Moon and Back” at the
International Consortium for Research in Science and Mathematics Education in Panama
City, Panama.
Professor of Biochemistry and Garey Chair of Chemistry Maha Zewail-Foote, Cargill
Endowed Associate Professor of Education Alicia Moore, and Professor of Political
Science Alisa Gaunder co-presented a virtual session for the Association for American
Colleges and Universities (AAC&U) 2023 Conference on Diversity, Equity and Student
Success. The mission of the AAC&U conference was to explore the complexities of truth
within higher education while examining institutional structures and beliefs that impede
diversity, equity, and inclusion goals. The presentation, titled “Cross-Institutional
CONNECTions: Mentorship, Truth, Belonging, and Retention,” provided an overview of
Southwestern’s ACS-funded FOC CONNECT project, which seeks to dismantle barriers to
success experienced by early-career faculty of color (FOC) in the academy. The project
supports a cross-institutional faculty mentoring program that connects these scholars
with senior faculty of color from other ACS institutions.
Professor of Education Michael Kamen has been elected to the Board of Directors of The
Association for the Study of Play (TASP).
NNoovveemmbbeerr 22002222

--- Page 15 of 21 ---

Professor of Education Michael Kamen and education majors Leora Ammerman ’24,
Logan Ferguson ’24, Caitlynne Graves ’24, Allison Hentges ’24, Kristin Lacy ’24, Rebecca
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Ramirez ’24, and William Slanina-Wertz ’24 presented “A Potpourri of Hands-on, Minds-
on Lessons and Activities” at the Science Teachers Association of Texas annual Conference
for the Advancement of Science Teaching (CAST) in Dallas.
Assistant Professor of Education Raquel Sáenz Ortiz and two current students (co-
researchers from SCOPE)— Rebecca Ramirez ’24 and Laura Carrasco Torres ’24—
presented “Curricular imperialism: The impact of ‘anti-CRT’ legislation on Ethnic Studies
classrooms in Texas” at the Critical Race Studies in Education Association (CRSEA) Annual
Meeting, held October 26-28 in Edwardsville, Illinois.
Professor of Education Michael Kamen and Associate Professor and Chair of Education
Alicia Moore presented “New Kids in the Blocks: Pedagogical Models of Play for Social
Justice” at the International Play Association-USA Annual Conference in San Antonio,
Texas.
AAuugguusstt 22002222
Associate Professor of Education Alicia Moore and Assistant Professor of Communication
Studies Lamiyah Bahrainwala were invited to speak on a parent-education panel for
Child’s Day, a child development center in Austin, on the topic of talking to children about
race. The well-attended panel, which featured K–12 educators and organizers, continued
Moore’s and Bahrainwala’s public-education efforts on inclusion work.
Associate Professor of Education Alicia Moore and Professor of Chemistry and
Biochemistry Maha Zewail-Foote were awarded a grant from the Associated Colleges of
the South (ACS) to create a unique virtual cross-institutional faculty mentoring program
for early-career faculty of color (FOC) called FOC CONNECT. The program will connect
early-career faculty of color with senior faculty from other ACS institutions. Through this
program, early-career faculty of color will receive mentorship and support. The program
will also provide training for selected senior faculty mentors.

--- Page 16 of 21 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Professor of Education Michael Kamen presented “Bottom Up Professional Development
for WILD Facilitators with the Lesson Study Model” at the virtual 2022 Texas Project WILD
Facilitator Forum, held July 21–22 through the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department.
JJuullyy 22002222
Assistant Professor of Education Raquel Sáenz Ortiz led a workshop titled “Forum
Theatre as a Community Tool in Shaping Liberatory Educators” at the 2022 International
Pedagogy and Theatre of the Oppressed Conference, held May 26–29 in Chicago.
MMaayy 22002222
Professor of Education Michael Kamen and Tugce Arda Tuncdemir of Lock Haven
University presented a workshop titled “Performance, Play, and Script Writing in College
Classes for Preservice Teachers” at the Association for the Study of Play Online
Conference.
Assistant Professor of Education Raquel Sáenz Ortiz presented a paper titled
“Reimagining Spaces of Learning for Youth of Color: A Model of Emancipatory Pedagogy”
at the 2022 American Educational Research Association Annual Meeting, held April 21–26
in San Diego, California. The paper is a case study of an alternative school in the
Northeast that roots itself in culturally sustaining models of teaching.
MMaarrcchh 22002222

--- Page 17 of 21 ---

Assistant Professor of Education Raquel Sáenz Ortiz presented the paper “Culture and
Schooling: Supporting Academic Identities through Culturally Sustaining Pedagogies for
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Immigrant-origin Youth” at the 2022 International Conference on Education and
Migration, held virtually and in person in Porto, Portugal, on March 10.
Professor of Education Michael Kamen presented a roundtable session titled “Slide Rules
—to the Moon and Back” at the International Consortium for Research in Science and
Mathematics Education 2022 Virtual Conference held March 12.
Professor of Education Michael Kamen and education alumna Morelia Hernandez ’21
presented the poster “Scriptwriting and Performance as Reflective Process” at the
Scholarship of Teaching and Learning (SoTL) Commons Conference held February 23–25
in Savannah, Georgia. The poster’s third author, Alys Mendus of the University of
Melbourne, was able to join virtually for part of the session.
NNoovveemmbbeerr 22002211
Professor of Education Michael Kamen wrote the foreword in Searching for the Ideal
School around the World: School Tourism and Performative Autoethnographic-Weby Alys
Mendus (Brill).
MMaayy 22002211
Please join us in congratulating the recipients of the following awards:
• 2021 Teaching Awards
• Tenured: Associate Professor of Education Alicia Moore
• Tenure-track: Assistant Professor of Business Gabriela Flores
• Visiting, part-time, and staff with faculty rank: Director of General Chemistry

--- Page 18 of 21 ---

Labs Willis Weigand
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
• 2021 Jesse E. Purdy Excellence in Scholarly and Creative Works Award
• Tenured: Associate Professor of Communication Studies Bob Bednar
• Tenure-track: Assistant Professor of History Joseph Hower
• 2021 Excellence in Advising Award
• Professor of Spanish Laura Senio Blair
MMaarrcchh 22002211
Professor of Education Michael Kamen and Alys Mendus, instructor at the University of
Melbourne Graduate School of Education, presented “That Could Work in My Class!
Adapting STEM Pedagogy from Non-Traditional Approaches” at a roundtable session at
the 2021 Virtual Conference of the International Consortium for Research in Science and
Mathematics Education.
Professor of Education Michael Kamen and junior education majors Antonia Renfroe ’22
and Gracie Huber ’22 presented “Well, I Guess I Am Teaching Remotely: Challenges and
Lessons Learned from an Online Elementary Science Methods Course” at a roundtable
session at the 2021 Virtual Conference of the International Consortium for Research in
Science and Mathematics Education.
JJaannuuaarryy 22002211
Associate Professor of Education Alicia Moore was recently selected as a faculty success
program coach for the National Center for Faculty Development and Diversity. The Faculty
Success Program is an online program designed to teach tenure-track and tenured faculty
the skills needed to increase both their research and writing productivity while
maintaining a healthy work–life balance. As a trained faculty coach, she is charged with
providing personalized support to the diverse group of participants.

--- Page 19 of 21 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
NNoovveemmbbeerr 22002200
Professor of Education Michael Kamen coauthored a chapter in the textbook Affective
Movements, Methods, and Pedagogies (Routledge, ebook 2020, print 2021) along with
Alys Mendus (first author) of the University of Hull, U.K. ; New York City–based playwright
Adaire Kamen’ and SU alumni Sarah Buchanan ’20, Abigail Luna ’20, Abigail Earle
Downs ’ 19, and Kelli McLaughlin ’ 18. The chapter—titled “They Call Teachers by Their
First Names!”—is an ethnodrama of preservice teachers visiting innovative schools.
OOccttoobbeerr 22002200
Professor of Anthropology Mel Johnson, Associate Professor of Education Alicia Moore ,
and Professor of Philosophy Phil Hopkins were panelists for the Georgetown Public
Library event “Confronting Racism: A Community Conversation.” The event offered three
sessions centered around three selected texts aimed at children, young adults, and adults.
Moore participated in the panel discussing New Kid by Jerry Craft, a graphic novel about
the struggle to fit in with a world that doesn’t look like you. Hopkins participated in the
panel discussing The Hate U Give by Angie Thomas, which details the impact of police
violence on communities of color. Johnson participated in the panel on Ibram X. Kendi’s
How to Be an Antiracist, a best-selling book on how to fight racism and inequality.
JJuullyy 22002200
Cargill Endowed Chair and Associate Professor of Education Alicia Moore and Margarett
Root Brown Chair in Fine Arts and Professor of Music Michael Cooper collaborated with
pianist Lara Downes to produce a crowdsourced recitation of the Civil Rights “Credo” of
W. E. B. Du Bois for the podcast We Need Gentle Truths for Now, hosted by Alexandra
Juhasz. Seven SU faculty and staff (Part-Time Instructor of Applied Music Adrienne Inglis,
Associate Professor of Music Jason Hoogerhyde, Professor of Music Kiyoshi Tamagawa,
Professor of Music Lois Ferrari, Sarofim School of Fine Arts Coordinator Olivia Wise,
Assistant Dean for Student Multicultural Affairs Terri Johnson, and Associate Professor of
Communication Studies Valerie Renegar), three current students (Alexis Lemus ’22,
Grace Sexton ’22, and Shelby Avants ’21), and six alumnae (Erin McHugh ’09, Isabel
Tweraser ’19, Julia Fowler ’15, Katiebeth Brandt ’19, Kinley Johnson ’17, and Sara
Watson ’13) participated in the recitation, along with 25 other participants Black and
white, ages 5 to 81, from the Americas and Europe, representing four native languages.
The podcast is available here. The recitation is also available as a YouTube video titled
“Testimony: A #BlackLivesMatter Manifesto after the Credo of W.E.B. Du Bois,” here.

--- Page 20 of 21 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
MMaarrcchh 22002200
A coauthored chapter by Professor of Education Michael Kamen and education majors
Abigail Luna ’20 and Sarah Buchanan ’20, “Block Play and a Pedagogical Model for Playful
STEM Learning,” has been accepted for publication in Bloom, M. B. & Quebec Fuentes, S.
(Eds.), Advancing Science and Mathematics Education for a Sustainable Future. In addition,
this chapter has also been posted as this month’s featured research article for discussion
in the Reading Group on Playfutures. PlayFutures, initiated by the Lego Foundation, is an
online global community of researchers, practitioners, parents and influencers/
policymakers who strive towards expanding the opportunities for learning through play.
JJaannuuaarryy 22002200
Professor of Education Michael Kamen and Project WILD Coordinator (Texas Parks and
Wildlife Department) Kiki Corry presented a preprogram workshop session titled “Project
WILD Facilitator Training” at the Association for Science Teacher Education 2020
international conference in San Antonio, TX.
Professor of Education Michael Kamen and senior education majors Abigail Luna’20
and Sarah Buchanan’20 presented their research, “Pedagogical Model and Strategies for
Playful Learning in Science,” at the Association for Science Teacher Education 2020
international conference in San Antonio, TX.

--- Page 21 of 21 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
GGEEOORRGGEETTOOWWNN,, TTEEXXAASS
551122..886633..66551111
CCOONNTTAACCTT