--- Page 1 of 15 ---

4/2/26, 2:29 PM CoursesMenu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
INTERNATIONAL STUDIES
Courses
GLOBAL SOCIETY AND CULTURE GLOBAL POLITICS AND ECONOMY
GLOBAL JUSTICE
See the course catalog for complete course descriptions.
Anthropology:
ANT35-244 Race, Class and Gender in the Caribbean
This course critically examines how the constructs of race, class and gender shape
everyday life in the Caribbean. The course will cover history, human-environmental
relations, the global circulations that continue to create the Caribbean (e.g. migration,
tourism and development), spiritualities, language, music, and Carnival. Contributes
to Feminist Studies, International Studies, Latin American and Border Studies, and
Race and Ethnicity Studies/Group-Themed Course. Prerequisite: Anthropology 35-
104, Feminist Studies 04-104, or permission of the instructor. (ScS) (SJ)(PJ)
ANT35-334 Global Environmental Justice
An exploration of global environmental issues from a perspective that foregrounds
questions of social inequality (differences in socioeconomic status, race, gender,
indigeneity, national identity, etc.). The course includes an overview of the U.S.
environmental justice movement, a consideration of global inequality, and social
theories of nature and culture. Topics addressed may include global climate change,
consumerism, pollution and toxic substances, resource extraction, bio-diversity
conservation, food production systems, natural disasters, and water scarcity.
https://www.southwestern.edu/international-studies/courses/ 1/15

--- Page 2 of 15 ---

4/2/26, 2:29 PM CoursesContributes to Animal Studies, Environmental Studies, Feminist Studies, Health
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Studies, International Studies, Race and Ethnicity Studies/Allied Course, and Legal
Studies Certificate. Prerequisite: Anthropology 35-104, Environmental Studies 49-
104, or Feminist Studies 04-104. (ScS) (SJ) (PJ)
Art History:
ARH71-024 Intro Art Hist: East Asian Art & Arch
This course provides an introduction to the disciplinary methods and concepts of art
history, presented in the context of the art and architecture of China, Korea, and
Japan. Emphasis will be placed on how the distinctive styles, genres, and traditions of
each region emerged in relation to one another and in the context of a shared East
Asian cultural heritage. Open only to first- or second-year students, or with consent of
the instructor. Contributes to Early Modern and Medieval Studies, East Asian Studies
and International Studies. (Annually) (FA) (WA)
ARH71-054 Introduction to Art History: Modern
This course provides an introduction to the disciplinary methods and concepts of art
history, presented in the context of European and American art from the 18th to the
20th centuries. Open only to first- or second-year students, or with consent of the
instructor. May contribute to International Studies. (Annually) (FA) (WA)
ARH71-214 Arts of China
This course surveys the arts of China from the Neolithic to the contemporary period.
Each lecture will consist of an in-depth examination of one of twenty-three landmarks
of Chinese art. A variety of works will be considered including jades, ancient bronzes,
calligraphy, Buddhist murals, landscape paintings, Chinese gardens, temples,
contemporary works, and more. Each work will be examined in its historical context,
introducing students to China's social and political history, as well as its major
religious and humanistic traditions including Confucianism, Buddhism, and Daoism.
Contributes to Early Modern and Medieval Studies, East Asian Studies and
International Studies. (Biennially) (FA) (WA)
https://www.southwestern.edu/international-studies/courses/ 2/15

--- Page 3 of 15 ---

4/2/26, 2:29 PM CoursesARH71-234 Ancient Chinese Art and Civilization
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
This course covers China's rich and complex ancient civilization, beginning in the
Neolithic and concluding with the fall of China's first long-lasting imperial
administration, the Han dynasty. It considers the development and trajectory of
Chinese art and architecture in relation to the formation of local states, kingdoms,
and the early Chinese empires. Topics covered include painted ceramics, jades, oracle
bones, bronze vessels and bells, lacquer works, mummies, gold ornaments, stone
shrines, early palaces and cities, silk, and much more. Art works will be studied in the
archaeological context in which they were discovered and in relation to the material
culture surrounding them. Contributes to East Asian Studies and International
Studies. (Biennially) (FA) (WA)
ARH71-264 Art in China Since 1911
his course presents an overview of the development of visual arts in China from the
late 19th century to the present. Students will consider the ways that recent works
created by Chinese artists responded to the turbulent politics of the 20th century, the
global art market, and past traditions of Chinese art. Works in a range of mediums
will be considered-from painting and calligraphy to architecture, film, and
performance works. Contributes to East Asian Studies, Feminist Studies, International
Studies, and Race and Ethnicity Studies/Allied Course. (Biennially) (FA) (WA) (SJ)(PJ)
ARH71-494 Modern Architecture
A survey of Euro-American architecture from c. 1750 through present day. Material
considers the context of intellectual history, industrial and political revolutions, mass
culture and technological innovation. It is also an introduction to issues of
architectural theory and the history of the modern architectural profession.
Contributes to International Studies. (Biennially) (FA) (WA)
English:
ENG10-164 From Romanticism to Modernism
https://www.southwestern.edu/international-studies/courses/ 3/15

--- Page 4 of 15 ---

4/2/26, 2:29 PM CoursesA historical survey of literary trends and prominent writers from the late 18th Century
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
to the early 20th Century. Authors studied may include William Wordsworth, Mary
Shelley, Jane Austen, Charlotte, Emily and Anne Bronte, Charles Dickens, E.M.
Forster and Virginia Woolf, and special attention will be given to issues of race,
sexuality, and colonialism in the context of the waxing and waning British Empire. May
be taken independently of English 10-154. Contributes to International Studies. (H)
(WA)
ENG10-514 World Cinema
A history of narrative film from its origins to the present with an emphasis upon
European, Asian, Indian and Third World cinema. Cultural contexts and technological
evolution are emphasized. Lang, Eisenstein, Renoir, Truffaut, Fellini, Bergman,
Fassbinder, Kurosawa, Ray, Almodovar, and Campion are among the directors
studied. German cinema of the Weimar Period, Soviet Silent Cinema and the Theory
of Montage, Italian Neorealism, the French New Wave, the Japanese Postwar
Renaissance and emergent Third World Cinema are among the organizing principles
of this survey. Contributes to International Studies. (H)
ENG10-654 Topics in 18th Century British Lit
A study of British writing of the long 18th century (1660-1800), with particular
attention to cultural continuity and change. Focus and authors will vary; offerings
include Sexual Politics of the Restoration Age, Reason and Madness in 18th-Century
Fiction, Enlightenment Self-Fashioning, Center and Periphery: the Problem of the
British 18th Century. May be repeated with change in topic. Contributes to
International Studies. (H)
ENG10-664 Topics in Romanticism
This course will emphasize the poetry and prose of traditional Romantic writers such
as Wordsworth, Keats, Coleridge, Hazlitt, Tighe and Barbauld, and will explore the
Romantic-era work of novelists like Jane Austen, Mary Shelley, Charlotte Smith, Sir
Walter Scott and Ann Radcliffe. Topics for this course will vary and may include
Romanticism and Gender, The Byronic Hero, and Romanticism and Aesthetics. May
https://www.southwestern.edu/international-studies/courses/ 4/15

--- Page 5 of 15 ---

4/2/26, 2:29 PM Coursesbe repeated with change in topic. Contributes to Feminist Studies and International
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Studies. (H)
ENG10-674 Topics in Victorian Lit & Culture
This course will explore the Victorian period in British culture through the dominant
literary genre of that period: the novel. Contributes to Feminist Studies and
International Studies. (H)
ENG10-684 Topics in 20th Century British Lit
This course will focus on the development of British modernisms and
postmodernisms, with particular attention to the diverse aesthetic strategies that
challenged, reinforced, and reconstructed ideas about subjectivity, gender, sexuality,
nation and novels. Contributes to Feminist Studies and International Studies. May be
repeated with change in topic. (H)
Feminist Studies:
History:
HIS16-204 African Environmental History
Agriculture and resource extraction are the economic, cultural and political mainstay
of many African economies. Their development and exploitation have varyingly
contributed towards the shaping of the environmental landscape of the continent.
Relying on primary and secondary sources, this class explores Africa's environmental
history tracing the shifting contours of social, political, economic as well as
environmental movements over time and space. It engages with varying emotive and
contested themes including, (white settler) colonization, agrarian and environmental
reform and policy, gender and society, imperialism, resource extraction, climate
change as well as race and ethnicity politics. The course aims to make the
environmental realities more recognizable to us. Contributes to Environmental
Studies, International Studies, and Race and Ethnicity Studies/Group-Theme Course.
(Biennially) (H)
HIS16-244 Docile Or Deviant Women Gender Sex China
https://www.southwestern.edu/international-studies/courses/ 5/15

--- Page 6 of 15 ---

4/2/26, 2:29 PM CoursesThis course explores the history of women and sexuality in China from the early ages
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
to the modern era. By framing women as central figures in the formation of Chinese
societies, states, and empires throughout history, we examine diverse female lives
through the exploration of key Chinese texts and primary sources written for, by, and
about women, which will provide insights into how women made contributions to their
societies. This study of gender covers various topics including family, marriage,
politics, gendered body, and same-sex relations. Fulfills the pre-/early modern
requirement in the History major. Contributes to Early Modern and Medieval Studies,
East Asian Studies, Feminist Studies, and International Studies. (Biennially) (H)
HIS16-264 Latin American Hist in Film & Literature
Telling the history of Latin America poses challenges because the region's own
definition lies between what its inhabitants have been told about their past and what
they know is their past. Films and novels capture some subtleties that lay between
institutional and lived history, official and personal history, and history and memory.
Using a selection of films and novels that focus on particular historical episodes from
colonial times to the early twenty-first century, this course examines these subtleties
and their relevance to understanding current transformations in Latin American
societies. Contributes to International Studies, Latin American and Border Studies,
and Race and Ethnicity Studies/Group-Theme Course. (Biennially) (H) (SJ) (PJ)
HIS16-314 History of Civil Rights Movement
This course explores the history of the Black Freedom struggle in the twentieth
century United States. Moving beyond the classic Heroic Era of the civil rights (from
Brown v. Board of Education to the Voting Rights Act), it examines social, cultural, and
political protests from the consolidation of Jim Crow through founding of Black Lives
Matter. Contributes to Feminist Studies, Race and Ethnicity Studies/Group-Theme
Course, and Legal Studies Certificate. (Biennially) (H) (SJ) (PJ)
HIS16-324 Rise of Right: Hist Cnsrvtv Mvmnt U.S.
This course will examine the history of the conservative movement in the United
States from the late 19th century through the election of Donald Trump. Blending
https://www.southwestern.edu/international-studies/courses/ 6/15

--- Page 7 of 15 ---

4/2/26, 2:29 PM Courseschronological and thematic organization, it will examine topics that include Social
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Darwinism and anti-Progressive politics, business and the New Deal state and the
emergence of libertarianism, McCarthyism and the Fourth Great Awakening after
World War II, the Goldwater movement, racial backlash and the Silent Majority, the
Tax Revolt of the 1970s, the Reagan years, the culture wars, before moving to more
recent developments. Contributes to Legal Studies Certificate. (Biennially) (H)
HIS16-344 History of the U.S. West
This course focuses on the history of the U.S. West as both frontier and region, real
and imagined, from the mid-19th century onward. It considers topics such as Indian
Removal, wars of conquest, immigration and migration, urban frontiers,
environmental change, and the myth of the frontier. It especially highlights the
intersections of race, gender, class, nationality and the environment. Course
objectives include learning to interpret varied forms of historical evidence and
fostering analytical, reading, discussion and synthetic skills that will help students
think and communicate critically about historical and contemporary society and
politics. Contributes to Environmental Studies and Race and Ethnicity Studies/Allied
Course. (Biennially) (H)
HIS16-374 History of the Islamic World
This course traces the development of Islamic societies and cultures throughout the
world from Mohammad's seventh-century revelations to the present. Topics include
Islamic empires, relations with other groups, art and architecture, science and
philosophy, evolution and adaptation. Fulfills the pre-/early modern requirement in
the History major. Contributes to International Studies. (Biennially) (H)
HIS16-404 History of the British Isles Since 1688
This course examines the British Isles since the Glorious Revolution via political,
social, cultural, and intellectual lenses, integrating imperial and oceanic perspectives.
It explores how British inhabitants formed, developed, and governed four distinct
nations (England, Ireland, Scotland, and Wales) as part of a single kingdom,
constructing one of the most powerful empires of the modern age, leaving a profound
https://www.southwestern.edu/international-studies/courses/ 7/15

--- Page 8 of 15 ---

4/2/26, 2:29 PM Courseslegacy in a globalized, post-colonial world. Contributes to International Studies and
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Legal Studies Certificate. (Biennially) (H)
HIS16-414 Modern France and Empire
This course investigates French history from 1789 to the present, charting political,
social, and cultural developments within France and determining the extent to which
these altered, or were influenced by, events outside the borders of the French
mainland-in the Empire or in foreign relations. The course pays particular attention to
attempts to define French identity within a global context. Contributes to Design
Thinking and International Studies. (Biennially) (H)
HIS16-434 The History of Europe's Muslims
This course traces the history of Muslim-European relationships from the early
Islamic empires in Andalusia, through European imperial experiences with Muslims
around the world, to the more recent reception of Muslim migrants on European soil.
The course questions the intellectual and political utility of defining populations of
such cultural, linguistic, and geographical breadth solely by their religion; discusses
the development of a European Islam; and debates the existence of a clash of
civilizations or a shared Mediterranean culture. Contributes to International Studies,
and Race and Ethnicity Studies/Group-Theme Course. (Biennially) (H) (SJ) (PJ)
HIS16-504 Topics in African History
Thematic courses with a focus on African history. May be repeated with change in
topic. Contributes to International Studies. (H)
HIS16-514 Topics in Asian History
Thematic courses with a focus on Asian history. May be repeated with change in topic.
Contributes to East Asian Studies and International Studies. (H)
HIS16-524 Topics in Latin American History
Thematic courses with a focus on Latin American history. May be repeated with
change in topic. Contributes to International Studies. (H)
https://www.southwestern.edu/international-studies/courses/ 8/15

--- Page 9 of 15 ---

4/2/26, 2:29 PM CoursesHIS16-534 Topics in U.S. History
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Thematic courses with a focus on U.S. history. May be repeated with change in topic.
(H)
HIS16-544 Topics in Transregional History
Thematic courses with a comparative or transregional theme (covering at least three
different world regions). May be repeated with change in topic. Contributes to
International Studies. (H)
HIS16-554 Topics in European History
Thematic courses with a focus on European history. May be repeated with change in
topic. Contributes to International Studies. (H)
HIS16-604 Historiography
A study of the concept of history, the history of historical writing, the major schools of
historical interpretation today and the relation of history to the philosophy of history.
Prerequisite: 16-014, 16-024, 16-034, 16-044, 16-054 or 16-094; and must have
junior status or permission of instructor. (Fall) (H) (WA)
Music:
MUL80-114 Introduction to Music Literature
A survey of the principal periods of music history and the most important genres,
styles, compositional techniques, and composers of each period. Prerequisites: Music
Theory 76-101 and 76-103, or permission of instructor. Contributes to International
Studies. (Spring) (FA)
MUL80-214 Music History 900-1800
A historical survey of music from the development of musical notation through the
end of the eighteenth century. Contributes to Early Modern and Medieval Studies,
and International Studies. Prerequisite: Music Literature 80-114, or permission of
instructor. (Fall) (FA)
MUL80-314 Music History Since 1800
https://www.southwestern.edu/international-studies/courses/ 9/15

--- Page 10 of 15 ---

4/2/26, 2:29 PM CoursesA historical survey of music since ca. 1800. Contributes to International Studies.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Prerequisite: Music Literature 80-114, or permission of instructor. (Spring of odd-
numbered years) (FA) (WA)
MUL80-414 Adv Topics in Music History & Literature
May be repeated with a change of topic. Contributes to International Studies.
Prerequisite: Music Literature 80-114, or permission of instructor. (Spring of even-
numbered years) (FA) (WA)
MUL80-424 Music in the Cultures of Print & Perform
Topics in the development of musical notation, edition, performance, publication, and
dissemination, and interactions among these. Offerings will focus on specific cultural
or historical topics. Contributes to International Studies. Prerequisite: Music
Literature 80-314. (FA
MUL80-434 Music, Gender, and Sexuality
Music is prized for its expressive capabilities and widely considered to be capable of
communicating humans' most personal ideas and experiences. Gender and sexuality
certainly belong in these realms. Focusing on specific cultural and historical arenas,
this course explores ways in which Western music and musicians have dealt with
themes of gender and sexuality, as well as ways in which other musicians and the
public have responded to, or ignored, those discourses. Contributes to International
Studies. Prerequisite: Music Literature 80-314, or permission of instructor. (FA) (WA)
MUL80-444 Music, Race, and Nationality
Concepts of Self and Other in music have often centered on asserted or perceived
racial, ethnic, and national identification, and musicians have often used both vocal
and instrumental music to deal with politically charged racial, ethnic, and national
themes that were risky or controversial in verbal and visual discourses. This course
focuses on those musicians' work in communicating their own ideas and persuading
others. Contributes to International Studies. Prerequisite: Music Literature 80-314, or
permission of instructor. (FA) (WA)
https://www.southwestern.edu/international-studies/courses/ 10/15

--- Page 11 of 15 ---

4/2/26, 2:29 PM CoursesMUL80-454 Studies in Musical Genre and Repertoire
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
An exploration of specific musical genres other than piano repertoire and song (Music
Literature 80-602, 80-612, 80-712) - e.g. jazz, hip hop, opera, symphonic literature,
instrumental chamber music, choral music, eighteenth-century cantata, etc.
Contributes to International Studies. Prerequisite: Music Literature 80-314, or
permission of instructor. (FA) (WA)
Philosophy:
PHI18-284 Latin American Philosophy
An introduction to modern and contemporary Latin American philosophy (incl.
Hispanic-American) and its European and indigenous roots. Key issues to be
considered are colonialism and decolonial practices, knowledge production,
nationality, race, ethnicity and gender. Readings to be drawn from authors such as
Bolívar, Martí, Vasconcelos, Alcoff, Mariátegui, Anzald a, Rivera Cusicanqui, Quijano,
Mignolo, Freire, among others. Contributes to International Studies and Race and
Ethnicity Studies/Allied Course. (H) (SJ) (PJ)
PHI18-354 Critical Philosophy of Race
A selective survey of contemporary critical philosophical approaches to race, with
emphasis on intersections with gender, class, nationalism and imperialism. This
course focuses on the ways race has been constructed as a category of identity across
various cultures, academic disciplines and historical periods, and on the relationship
between race and ethnicity as categories of difference. Contributes to Feminist
Studies, International Studies, and Race and Ethnicity Studies/Concepts Course. (H)
Political Science:
PSC32-184 Politics of Latin America & Caribbean
This introduction to contemporary Latin American and Caribbean politics also allows
students with previous knowledge about the region to further their interests. The
course is built around some of the key issues which confront Latin America and the
https://www.southwestern.edu/international-studies/courses/ 11/15

--- Page 12 of 15 ---

4/2/26, 2:29 PM CoursesCaribbean. Contributes to International Studies, Latin American and Border Studies,
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
and Race and Ethnicity Studies/Allied Course. (ScS) (SJ) (PJ).
PSC32-284 Japanese Politics, Culture & Society
This course explores the historical and cultural context of contemporary Japanese
politics, the political institutions of the 1955 system, the policy-making process in
post-war Japan, and the effects of the 1994 political reforms. This course is open
only to first years and sophomores. Juniors and seniors may register with the
permission of the instructor. Contributes to East Asian Studies and International
Studies. (ScS)
Religon:
REL19-204 Christian Traditions
A historical and thematic introduction to the Christian thought and practice. The
survey begins with the Jesus movement and continues through the current growth of
Christianity in the southern hemisphere, particularly sub-Saharan Africa and Latin
America. Literary genres, gender issues, political contexts, social movements and
ethical dimensions are explored. Contributes to International Studies. (H) (SJ) (PJ)
REL19-224 Jewish Traditions
A survey of the history, practices and belief of Judaism from the period of the
formation of the Hebrew Bible to the modern era. Contributes to International
Studies. (H)
REL19-244 Islamic Traditions
A survey of the history, practices, and beliefs of Islam from Muhammad's era to the
modern. It investigates special themes such as mysticism, gender, and politics with
attention to diverse cultural contexts. Contributes to International Studies. (H)
REL19-274 Hindu Traditions
A historical and thematic introduction to the religious ideas and practices that
developed primarily on the Indian subcontinent. The course surveys central religious
https://www.southwestern.edu/international-studies/courses/ 12/15

--- Page 13 of 15 ---

4/2/26, 2:29 PM Coursesconcepts and myths in classical texts and popular traditions; the interaction with
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Buddhism, Jainism, Islam and Sikhism; gender issues; and the relationship between
religion and politics in South Asia. Contributes to Feminist Studies and International
Studies. (H) (SJ) (PJ)
REL19-284 Buddhist Traditions
A historical and thematic introduction to the central ideas and practices of Buddhism.
The course takes a multi-disciplinary approach to central religious concepts and
myths in classical texts and popular traditions, beginning with the historical Buddha
and early developments in India, Sri Lanka and Tibet. The course surveys the spread
of Buddhism throughout Asia and to other regions of the world, including North
America. Ethics, gender issues, and social movements are explored. Contributes to
East Asian Studies and International Studies. (H) (SJ) (PJ)
REL19-324 Women, Goddesses and Religion
A cross-cultural study of the ways women's voices have been heard and silenced, of
the ways that their lives have been influential (as well as violently ended) and of the
vital roles women have played in various religious traditions. The course also
investigates ways in which female divinity has been conceptualized in various ancient
and modern religious traditions. Rituals, communities, visual symbols and sacred texts
will provide the material for our explorations and a feminist methodology will provide
the lens for our gaze. Contributes to Anthropology, Feminist Studies, and
International Studies. (H) (WA) (SJ) (PJ)
REL19-344 Animals and Religion
A cross-cultural study of the ways other-than-human animals are included in and
influence several different religious traditions. The course also examines
contemporary issues such as factory farming and biomedical experimentation.
Ecofeminist and environmental theories and methods inform the course. Contributes
to Animal Studies, Environmental Studies, Feminist Studies, and International Studies.
(H) (SJ) (PJ)
https://www.southwestern.edu/international-studies/courses/ 13/15

--- Page 14 of 15 ---

4/2/26, 2:29 PM CoursesREL19-364 Pilgrimage
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
A critical and comparative exploration of the religious, spiritual, social, cultural,
environmental, economic, and political dimensions of religious journey. The course
will investigate several theoretical approaches to pilgrimage that foreground issues
such as the relation between place and sacred space; the distinction between physical
and metaphorical journeys; pilgrims' motivations and goals; the relationship between
religious journeying and ordinary life; how cultural values shape and are shaped by
pilgrimages; the environmental impacts of pilgrimage; and the relationship between
pilgrimage and tourism. Students will apply these theoretical approaches by focusing
on particular religious journeys in several traditions. Contributes to Anthropology,
Environmental Studies, and International Studies. (H)
REL19-384 Rastas, Saints and Virgins
This course looks at the study of ethnic religious traditions in the United States -
religions associated with specific ethnic groups. Students will examine religious
systems such as Santeria, Rastafarians and the Cult of the Virgin of Guadalupe, among
others. The goal of the course is not only to understand the religions themselves, but
also to see how to go about studying religious systems which are not founded in texts
and which differ on a deep philosophical level from many mainstream religious
systems. Contributes to Anthropology, International Studies, and Race and Ethnicity
Studies/Group-Theme Course. (H) (SJ) (PJ)
REL19-414 The Body in Religion
A feminist, cross-cultural examination of the embodied human self in various religious
traditions. The course will explore how the body is conceptualized, including sexuality
and gender; moral proscriptions regarding the body and what they reveal about
religion and culture; self-cultivation techniques; and the relationship between
embodiment and salvation. Written texts and visual arts will be the media of
exploration. Contributes to Feminist Studies and International Studies (H)
https://www.southwestern.edu/international-studies/courses/ 14/15

--- Page 15 of 15 ---

4/2/26, 2:29 PM CoursesMenu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
GEORGETOWN, TEXAS
512.863.6511
CONTACT
https://www.southwestern.edu/international-studies/courses/ 15/15