--- Page 1 of 9 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
ENGLISH
Courses
Department course offerings support the General Education Program of the University. Normally, a
student will take at least one introductory literature course before taking other courses in the
department.
English 10-144, 10-154, 10-164, 10-174 and 10-244 are introductory courses, open to all
students. English 10-244 is strongly recommended to the prospective major or minor, as is one or
more courses among 10-154, 164, and 174.
Below you will find a list of our current or recent offerings. See the course catalog for descriptions
and updated information.
10-114 College Writing
A course in persuasive, analytical and researched writing that includes critical response to
readings. Not to be counted toward an English major or minor, or included in the 56-credit
limitation in one subject area. (WA)
10-124 Literary Worlds
An introduction to the analysis and interpretation of literature (broadly conceived), with
readings organized thematically around a topic of wide social interest, such as war, identity,
nature or crime. Students will practice close reading techniques on historically, culturally, and
formally diverse texts, learn about the wide range of objects and questions that literary study
can address, and consider how literary works respond to and participate in social worlds. This
course is both an accessible English course for non-majors and an introductory course for
students who wish to pursue a minor or a major in English. (H) (WA)
10-134 Introduction to Creative Writing
An introductory workshop focused primarily on prose fiction. (WA)

--- Page 2 of 9 ---

10-154 Topics in British Literature I
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
The purposes of this class are two-fold: on the one hand, it will provide a sketch of the most
important elements of British literary development between 1390 and 1755. On the other
hand, we will develop a conversation about the history of gender in that period. Contributes to
Early Modern Studies, and International Studies. (H) (WA)
10-164 From Romanticism to Modernism
A historical survey of literary trends and prominent writers from the late 18th Century to the
early 20th Century. Authors studied may include William Wordsworth, Mary Shelley, Jane
Austen, Charlotte, Emily and Anne Bronte, Charles Dickens, E.M. Forster and Virginia Woolf,
and special attention will be given to issues of race, sexuality, and colonialism in the context of
the waxing and waning British Empire. May be taken independently of English 10-154.
Contributes to International Studies. (H) (WA)
10-174 Topics in American Literature
From before Columbus to the present. An historically organized course. May be taken
independently of English 10-154 and English 10-164. Contributes to Race and Ethnicity
Studies/Group-Theme Course. (H) (WA)
10-184 Introduction to Film Studies
Provides students with a broad overview of cinema history and an introduction to the
terminology of film analysis and critique. Students will learn film theory, aesthetics, and genre;
and begin to explore the semiotics of film structure that embed ideas about gender, race, class,
and sexuality within gothic, romantic, tragic, and comic modes of representation. Students will
also develop an understanding of the importance of cinematography, editing, sound, and
casting in the production and interpretation of film meaning. Contributes to Design Thinking.
(Fall) (H)
10-204 Topics in Literary Methods
A focused engagement on genre and literary analysis. Topics and readings will vary from
semester to semester. May be repeated with a change of topic. (H)
10-244 Literary Methods
An introduction to issues and methods of literary analysis. Topics and readings will vary from
semester to semester. May be repeated with a change in topic. Contributes to Legal Studies

--- Page 3 of 9 ---

Certificate. (Spring) (H) (WA)
M10en-2u64 CSheicaarcnha Literary Methods Apply Visit Majors & Minors
This course focuses on literature and Chicana feminism. We will work with two key texts,
Infinite Divisions: An Anthology of Chicana Literature (1993) and Essential Literary Terms
(2016). We will read and analyze a variety of literary methods within the anthology, reading
over 30 Chicana feminist authors like Gloria Anzaldua, Ana Castillo, Lorna Dee Cervantes,
Denise Chavez, and Cherríe Moraga. From these readings and discussions, you will receive a
broad understanding of the historical and literary formations of Chicana feminists and Mexican
American women from the 19th century to the present. Contributes to Feminist Studies, and
Latin American and Border Studies. (H) (WA)
10-334 Advanced Creative Writing: Poetry
A writing workshop in poetry. May be repeated for credit. Approval of instructor required.
(WA)
10-344 Advanced Creative Writing: Fiction
A writing workshop in prose fiction. May be repeated for credit. Approval of instructor
required. (WA)
10-354 Advanced Creative Writing: Non-Fiction
An intensive course in writing with emphasis on the critical essay. May be repeated with change
in topic. (WA)
10-364 Transatlantic Children's Literature
This course undertakes serious consideration of literature written for children and Young
Adults from the Golden Age (1850-1915) to the present, in the context of shifting historical
and cultural beliefs about childhood. (H)
10-374 Modern British Fantasy for Children
A study of British Fantasy literature written for children and adolescents from the 1800s to the
present. Through novels and film adaptations like Carroll's Alice in Wonderland, Pullman's The
Golden Compass, Rowling's Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone, and Jones's Howl's Moving
Castle, we will explore questions of narrative, genre, adaptation and intended audience(s). (H)
10-404 Literary Theory and Criticism

--- Page 4 of 9 ---

An intensive introduction to major critical and theoretical approaches to literature.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Prerequisite: Any 200 level English course, or permission of instructor. (H)
10-444 Topics in Theory
This course offers a focused engagement with a theoretical question, problem or method.
Possible offerings include Foucault and the Legacies of New Historicism, Problems in
Textuality, Who Put the Post in Postcolonial? Technical Advances in Ecocriticism,
Psychoanalytic Theory and Its Discontents. May be repeated with change of topic.
Prerequisite: Any 200 level English course. (H)
10-454 Feminist Film Theory
This course will focus on the way films define gender, and on the direction that film criticism
takes when feminism goes to the movies. It includes an intensive consideration of feminist film
criticism and theory from 1975 to the present, and is intended for students who are interested
in film studies and who have some experience with critical reading, writing, and theoretical
analysis. Contributes to Feminist Studies. Prerequisite: Any 200 level English course, Feminist
Studies 04-104, or permission of instructor. (H) (SJ)(PJ)
10-464 Speaking Across Languages
This is a course on translation theory that is open to monolingual and multilingual students,
from inside and outside the English major. We will study Shakespeare in translation as well as
the original, and modern poetry in English and in Spanish, as we explore important issues of
translation theory. Contributes to Chinese, East Asian Studies, German, International Studies,
Latin, Neuroscience and Spanish. May be repeated with change of topic. Prerequisite: any 200
level English course, or fluency in a second language. (H)
10-504 Topics in Film
Diverse themes and approaches (such as narrative, historicist, genre, feminist) to Hollywood
and/or independent film traditions. Possible offerings include Film Noir, Shakespeare in
Hollywood, Romantic Comedies, 60s Hollywood, Reel Jews, and LGBT Film. May be repeated
with change of topic. (H)
10-514 World Cinema
A history of narrative film from its origins to the present with an emphasis upon European,
Asian, Indian and Third World cinema. Cultural contexts and technological evolution are

--- Page 5 of 9 ---

emphasized. Lang, Eisenstein, Renoir, Truffaut, Fellini, Bergman, Fassbinder, Kurosawa, Ray,
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Almodovar, and Campion are among the directors studied. German cinema of the Weimar
Period, Soviet Silent Cinema and the Theory of Montage, Italian Neorealism, the French New
Wave, the Japanese Postwar Renaissance and emergent Third World Cinema are among the
organizing principles of this survey. Contributes to International Studies. (H)
10-524 American Movies
A history of narrative film from its origins to the present with an emphasis upon Hollywood
cinema. Historical contexts and technological evolution are emphasized. Griffith, Chaplin,
Welles, Hitchcock, Ford, Kubrick, Altman, Coppola, and Anderson are among the directors
studied. The Studio System, silent comedies, sound film, genre study (musical, comedy,
western and gangster films), New Hollywood and digital technology are among the organizing
principles of this survey. (H)
10-534 Reel Worlds: Documentary Film Studies
Many people believe that documentary films simply reflect and represent real worlds. To a
certain extent this assumption is true: documentary films do purport to represent real people,
events, and historical circumstances, and promise to tell fact-based stories that are
fundamentally true. This course will explore this assumption while also focusing on the ways
that documentary filmmakers bring their own interpretations to the stories they are telling, and
are always (subtly or overtly) trying to persuade us to adopt their particular perspective about
the real worlds they depict. (H)
10-544 Science Fiction Film
This course will follow the development of science fiction cinema from the silent shorts of the
early 20th century to today's blockbusters. As we explore this history, paying attention to
formal and aesthetic elements of the film genre, we'll also trace how science fiction has
reflected the circumstances and concerns of its moment. This is a class that asks critical
questions about how science and technology are inextricable from issues of power and
embodiment, and how popular culture circulates, reflects, and refracts these complex realities.
(H)
10-604 Topics in Medieval Literature

--- Page 6 of 9 ---

An advanced introduction to some of the best literature of the medieval period. Topics will vary
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
but may include such authors as the Beowulf-poet, Chaucer, Malory and Langland. Some
possible topics include quest-narratives, piety, drama, images of women, autobiography, and
allegory. May be repeated with change in topic. Contributes to Early Modern and Medieval
Studies, and International Studies. (H)
10-624 Shakespeare
An intensive introduction to the works of William Shakespeare. The selection of works will vary
from semester to semester but will address both the traditional study of Shakespeare from a
historical point of view, and also a variety of translations, adaptations and transformations
across the world. Contributes to Early Modern Studies, International Studies, and Theatre. (H)
10-644 Victorian Mystery
This course will focus on the genre of the Victorian Mystery novel, published primarily during
the heyday of nineteenth-century sensationalism (1853-1887). Sensation novels reflected the
anxieties of a declining Empire and an increasingly unstable social order through blood-
curdling tales of bigamy, arson, adultery, forgery, incest, child abandonment, and murder.
Authors studied may include Charles Dickens, Wilkie Collins, Mary Elizabeth Braddon, Bram
Stoker and Arthur Conan Doyle. Contributes to Feminist Studies. (H)
10-654 Topics in 18th Century British Lit
A study of British writing of the long 18th century (1660-1800), with particular attention to
cultural continuity and change. Focus and authors will vary; offerings include Sexual Politics of
the Restoration Age, Reason and Madness in 18th-Century Fiction, Enlightenment Self-
Fashioning, Center and Periphery: the Problem of the British 18th Century. May be repeated
with change in topic. Contributes to International Studies. (H)
10-664 Topics in Romanticism
This course will emphasize the poetry and prose of traditional Romantic writers such as
Wordsworth, Keats, Coleridge, Hazlitt, Tighe and Barbauld, and will explore the Romantic-era
work of novelists like Jane Austen, Mary Shelley, Charlotte Smith, Sir Walter Scott and Ann
Radcliffe. Topics for this course will vary and may include Romanticism and Gender, The
Byronic Hero, and Romanticism and Aesthetics. May be repeated with change in topic.
Contributes to Feminist Studies and International Studies. (H)

--- Page 7 of 9 ---

10-674 Topics in Victorian Lit & Culture
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
This course will explore the Victorian period in British culture through the dominant literary
genre of that period: the novel. Contributes to Feminist Studies and International Studies. (H)
10-684 Topics in 20th Century British Lit
This course will focus on the development of British modernisms and postmodernisms, with
particular attention to the diverse aesthetic strategies that challenged, reinforced, and
reconstructed ideas about subjectivity, gender, sexuality, nation and novels. Contributes to
Feminist Studies and International Studies. May be repeated with change in topic. (H)
10-694 Austen/Bronte/Woolf
This course is a concentrated exploration of three of the most celebrated, overexposed, and
misunderstood female novelists in English history, Jane Austen (1775-1817), Charlotte Bronte
(1816-1855) and Virginia Woolf (1882-1941). Novels studied may include Pride and Prejudice,
Mansfield Park, Jane Eyre, Villette, Mrs. Dalloway and To the Lighthouse. Contributes to
Feminist Studies. (H
10-714 Interdisciplinary Topics in American Lit
A thematic study of American writers from an interdisciplinary perspective. Focus will vary.
May be repeated with change in topic. (H)
10-724 American Environmental Literatures
This course will explore how modern and contemporary U.S. writers have articulated the
intimate connections between nature and culture in the context of environmental and social
justice. Paying particular attention to the women writers, queer writers, and writers of color
whom mainstream environmental conversations have often constitutively excluded, we will
consider how divergent visions of nature (as pristine wilderness outside of human reach; as site
of/ constituted by violence; as not dualistically separated from humanity; etc.) have inflected
both American poetics and American politics-and, conversely, how the literature of
environmental justice re-maps and re-envisions U.S. politics, histories, and myths. Contributes
to Environmental Studies. (H)
10-734 Topics in 19th Century American Lit Literature
A study of American writers before 1900, with particular attention to social and cultural
change. Focus will vary. May be repeated with change in topic. (H)

--- Page 8 of 9 ---

10-754 Topics in 20th & 21st Cen American Lit Literature
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
A study of American writers after 1900, with particular attention to social and cultural change.
Focus will vary. May be repeated with change in topic. (H)
10-834 Postcolonial Literature
A study of literature produced at the intersection of cultures. Consideration of ways cultural
differences and legacies of colonization are negotiated. Major figures vary from year to year
but will usually include Achebe, Gordimer, Head, Ngugi, Rushdie and Soyinka. Contributes to
Race and Ethnicity Studies/Allied Course. (H) (IP) (SJ)(PJ)
10-854 Topics in Literature, Gender & Sexuality
Informed by feminist and queer theory, this course will explore the ways in which diverse
literary traditions construct and challenge conceptions of gender, genre, canon, period and
nation. May be repeated with change in topic. Contributes to Feminist Studies. (H)
10-864 Topics in Contemporary Literature
A study of literature written in English from the 1960s to the present. Topics and authors will
vary from semester to semester to reflect the breadth and depth of contemporary literary
practices. May be repeated with change in topic. Contributes to Feminist Studies. (H)
10-874 Topics in American Ethnic Literature
A study of the literatures of American ethnic communities, analyzing the relationships between
ethnicity, history, and literature, and focusing on specific traditions or comparative approaches
not covered in English 10-884 and English 10-894. Discussion is attentive to the intersections
of ethnic identity with gender, sexuality, citizenship, and class. May be repeated with change in
topic. Contributes to Feminist Studies and Race and Ethnicity Studies/Group-Theme Course.
(H) (SJ)(PJ) (WA)
10-884 African-American Literature
A study of African-American literature, attending to literary tradition and innovation over time,
historical change and sociopolitical contexts, canon formation and reformation, the treatment
of identity and intersectionality, and the role of Black literary and cultural production in social
and political struggles, movements, and possibility. Specific emphasis may vary by semester.
Contributes to Feminist Studies and Race and Ethnicity Studies/Group-Theme. (H) (WA)
10-894 Latinx Literature

--- Page 9 of 9 ---

A study of the literature produced by Latinx writers, both situated within U.S. American literary
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
and cultural contexts and attending to the profound challenges that Latinx literature poses to
U.S. American conceptions of space and place, identity, and citizenship. Specific emphasis may
vary by semester. Contributes to Feminist Studies, Latin American and Border Studies, and
Race and Ethnicity Studies/Group-Theme Course. (H) (WA)
10-934 Seminar
Fulfills the requirement for a capstone experience. Prerequisite: Any 400-level course. (Fall)
(WA).
GEORGETOWN, TEXAS
512.863.6511
CONTACT