--- Page 1 of 39 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
ENGLISH
Notable Faculty & Student Achievements
April 2026
Assistant Professor of English Vallaire Wallace presented on a panel at CLAGS: The Center for
LGBTQ Studies’ “Queer-Class Relations Conference,” held at the CUNY Graduate Center in New
York City. The panel was called “Queer Erotics of Class Crossover,” and was facilitated by Aaron
Lecklider of UMass Boston. Dr. Wallace’s paper, titled “Homosociality At Sea: Hughes, The Big Sea
and Class Consciousness,” focuses on reading Langston Hughes’ 1940 biography The Big Sea
through a queer lens, with attention to how same-sex desire shadows his class encounters
abroad, especially while in Nigeria.
Director of Public Engagement Manda Wittebort and English alum McKenzie Rentie ’25
facilitated an interactive workshop session, titled “Time Together as Ritual: Practicing the Art of
Facilitation,” at South by Southwest EDU. Nearly 100 nationwide participants from a diversity of
sectors continued to find both facilitators throughout the entirety of the conference to offer
positive feedback and express a desire to learn more from them. Attending their first SXSW, the
pair was incredibly excited to build connections and community, and to speak to the importance
of collaborative culture-making. Grounded in social justice and lived experience, attendees were
invited to reflect on the knowledge they all are already equipped with to build meaningful
connections and create sub-cultures, consider what roadblocks and challenges are keeping them
from the approaches they already know, and utilize the power of storytelling as a space for
changemaking.

--- Page 2 of 39 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
March 2026
Professor of English Michael Saenger was an invited speaker at a conference held at Texas Hillel
in Austin. The conference addressed productive and meaningful ways to engage in religious and
political difference, and was covered in the local media, available here.
January 2026
Professor and Chair of English Eileen Cleere participated in a roundtable at the Modern
Language Association’s (MLA) annual meeting in Toronto, Canada from January 8–11. The
roundtable featured conversation about how literature can help us navigate institutional spaces
where faculty labor is increasingly gendered and generational. Her paper, “Becoming a Minor
Character,” discussed the temporal mismatch between the timeline for meaningful institutional
transformation and a “move fast and break things” incentive structure that requires immediate
and assessable outcomes.

--- Page 3 of 39 ---

Professor of English Michael Saenger presented an invited talk at the Academic Engagement
Network’s Short Course in Miami, FL. The talk was on how to combat rising antisemitism in
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
academic societies. Immediately after the speaking engagement, Saenger travelled to Toronto to
lead a diverse group of faculty advocating for campus civility and against antisemitism at the
Modern Language Association (MLA) convention. At the convention, many faculty from around
the country spoke passionately about how to protect a culture of campus safety and educational
integrity. You can read about the controversy at the convention here.
December 2025
Professor of English Michael Saenger was interviewed for a story in the Times of Israel on
academic boycotts and the harm they cause to Jews and to university communities as a whole.
Saenger has been a leading advocate for academic freedom and antidiscrimination. The story can
be read here.
November 2025
Assistant Professor of English Sonia Del Hierro presented a paper titled “Aesthetics in the flesh:
Las Brown Berets and Chicana Resistencia” at the 11th Annual El Mundo Zurdo conference, hosted
by Trinity University in San Antonio from November 6–8. This year’s theme was “Hope Sin
Fronteras: Reclaiming Fluidity, Empowering Communities, and Enacting Resistance.”

--- Page 4 of 39 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Professor Emerita of English Helene Meyers published “Wrestling with Jewish Shame: a Review of
Sarah Hurwitz’s As a Jew” in The Revealer. It can be read here.
Professor of English Michael Saenger was interviewed by J Life: Heart of New Jersey, on the topic
of rising antisemitism in academic environments. The interview can be read here.
As part of his Publicly Engaged Humanities project, Professor of English Michael Saenger was
interviewed by KVUE Midday News Anchor Jenni Lee on the topic of rising antisemitism in
academic life, and the need to support civil discourse around controversial issues. The interview
can be seen here.
Professor of English Michael Saenger was an invited speaker on the topic of “Academic
Engagement Network’s efforts to confront antisemitism and support and protect Jews and
Zionists in academic spaces” at the Jewish National Fund’s annual conference in Hollywood, FL
from October 23–26.

--- Page 5 of 39 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
October 2025
Assistant Professor of English Sonia Del Hierro co-published a brief essay titled “Algunos
pensamientos sobre las señoras” in the Spanish-language feminist blog, Indisciplinadxs Linguistica
Feminista. This essay/blog entry provides a framework for understanding linguistic, historical, and
contemporary perspectives on the identity label “señora” within Latine/x and Mexican American
communities. This work emerges from Del Hierro’s larger project, Señora Power, a multi-
disciplinary project committed to writing Chicana feminist consciousness into public history.
August 2025
Professor of English Michael Saenger was selected to join 50 faculty members from around the
country to represent the Academic Engagement Network (AEN) at the annual Israel on Campus
Coalition National Leadership Summit in Washington, D.C. The AEN Delegation joined 750
students to learn about the Middle East and to form connections of solidarity to confront rising
antisemitism at universities. This publicly engaged humanities project involved a serious
engagement with politicians, authors, and community leaders, and culminated in an appearance
by Ritchie Torres (D-NY).

--- Page 6 of 39 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
July 2025
Professor and Chair of English Eileen Cleere presided over her final conference as President of
Interdisciplinary Nineteenth-Century Studies (INCS) in Genoa, Italy from June 18-21. In that
capacity, Cleere ran a board meeting, planned upcoming conferences in Washington, D.C., Dallas,
TX, and Rome, Italy, and introduced the keynote speaker, Professor Clair Pettitt, for a lecture held
at the Palazzo Ducale (Doge’s Palace). Cleere also delivered a paper titled “The Quickening:
Pregnancy and Pronatalism in Jane Austen’s Sense and Sensibility,” and participated in a special
roundtable called “Slowing Down Time: Embodied and Generational Resistances to Speed and
Acceleration.” Her roundtable talk was titled “Becoming a Minor Character,” and suggested that
the Victorian novel can help us understand models of institutional service generationally, with
specific focus on the gendered and generational labor often required to sustain work in public
facing (PH) and community facing (CEL) initiatives.
Professor of English Michael Saenger delivered a paper titled “Unveiling Hermione and Other
Deferrals” at the European Shakespeare Research Association Conference in Porto, Portugal. The
paper addresses Shakespeare’s sense of time as a dramatic and poetic experience in The Winter’s
Tale. This play includes an appearance of an old man dressed as Time midway through its
performance, and it also includes very subtle and fascinating ways of hearing temporal change
and stillness.
June 2025

--- Page 7 of 39 ---

Professor Emerita of English Helene Meyers published “Making Good Jewish Trouble: A Review of
Sandi DuBowski’s ‘Sabbath Queen’” in The Revealer. It can be read here.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Professor of English Michael Saenger published “Faculty on Fifth Avenue” with The Times of
Israel. The blog post argues for academic freedom and informed discussion about the Middle
East. It can be read here.
March 2025
Professor of English Michael Saenger presented a seminar paper titled “A Mouldy Tale Newly
Set” at the Shakespeare Association of America conference in Boston on March 21. His paper
discusses the path of Pericles, a play that Shakespeare co-authored, through its recent
performance by the Royal Shakespeare Company. The play was once disdained because of its
collaborative nature and sprawling geography, but now has become interesting for the same
reasons.
Professor of English Michael Saenger was an invited member of the delegation representing
Academic Engagement Network (AEN), an organization dedicated to fighting academic
antisemitism, at the Anti-Defamation League (ADL) “Never is Now” conference in New York City

--- Page 8 of 39 ---

from March 3-4. The conference featured both Jews and allies who are working to fight a tide of
Jew-hate that is rising at college campuses nationwide, including David Schwimmer, Gal Gadot,
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Billie Jean King, and Van Jones, as well as the presidents of the University of Michigan and
Washington University in St. Louis. AEN and ADL announced a new partnership to clearly
articulate that debate and protest about the Middle East is good, but harassment of Jewish
students and calls for genocide must be stopped. A photo including Saenger and Jonathan
Greenblatt, CEO and National Director of the ADL, to promote the work they are doing together
can be seen here, via X.
February 2025
Assistant Professors of Sociology Adriana Ponce and Amanda Hernandez, Assistant Professor of
Political Science Alexander Goodwin, Assistant Professor of History Bryan Kauma, and Assistant
Professor of English Sonia Del Hierro published “Teaching with Color: Thematic Hires and the
Politics of Teaching in Texas,” in the journal Sociology of Race and Ethnicity. This article joins a
growing conversation in the humanities and humanistic social sciences on ways faculty of color
shoulder the burden of thinking about our shared futures as racialized, intersectional, and
collaborative. You can find the article here.
January 2025
Professor of English Michael Saenger delivered an invited lecture to a diverse group of 38
academics from around the country at the Academic Engagement Network’s Short Course in

--- Page 9 of 39 ---

Miami on January 7. His talk, “The Battle for Legitimacy: Zionism, the MLA and Academic
Freedom,” related to his ongoing leadership in efforts to protect academic freedom for all
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
students and professors, including those who identify as Zionist, Jewish, and Israeli.
Professor of English Michael Saenger published a new article, “A Magnus Amator in Illyria:
Shakespeare and the Memory of Plautus,” in Memoria Di Shakespeare, the leading Shakespeare
journal in Italy. In the article, Saenger argues that a key line in Twelfth Night, which begins “Some
are born great,” is actually an echo of the Latin dramatist Plautus. The article further explores the
poetic space between languages, which Saenger has called “interlinguicity.” It can be read here.
December 2024
Professor of English Michael Saenger was the invited speaker at an event at the Institute for
Jewish Studies and Interfaith Understanding at Old Dominion University. He spoke about the
crucial value of Zionism amidst the need to confront academic antisemitism and cultivate peace
and inclusive community.

--- Page 10 of 39 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
November 2024
Assistant Professor of English Sonia Del Hierro presented “Chicana Feminism Now: Teaching
Chicana Feminists Texts in 2024” at the National Women’s Studies Association in Detroit, MI from
November 14-17. Her talk argued for the increased relevance of Chicana feminist literature and
methods, presenting two case studies of English courses taught at Southwestern in Fall 2023 and
Spring 2024.
Assistant Professor of English Sonia Del Hierro was featured in the Place-Based Justice Network’s
November Spotlight for her project Señora Power. In collaboration with Dr. Sophia Martinez
Abbud, an Assistant Professor at Utah State, and Dr. Gaby Barrios, an independent scholar in Los
Angeles, Dr. Del Hierro developed Señora Power, a multi-disciplinary project committed to writing
Chicana feminist consciousness into public history. With particular attention to the coalescence of
Chicanx culture and identity in Los Angeles and Houston from the early 20th century to the late
1980s, the initiative tracks the radical work and resistance of señoras prior to the civil rights
movement. To execute this recording of personal and scholarly nuances towards archival
knowledge, the final products of Señora Power translate to the creation of a podcast discussing
the various señora figures; a website to illustrate the project overview, hold podcast episodes, and
provide breakdowns of each episode; and create physical pamphlets to be distributed in Houston
and LA community centers to increase accessibility to Chicanx knowledge and history.
Professor of English Michael Saenger presented a paper titled “The Ethics of Ambiguity in The
Merchant of Venice” at the Sixteenth Century Society Conference in Toronto on November 1. His
paper addressed the issue of Shylock as a villain within the play, and how that issue has impacted
modern controversies surrounding academic antisemitism.

--- Page 11 of 39 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
October 2024
Part-time Professor of Creative Writing Chelsey Clammer ’05 recently had a personal creative
essay published in Under the Gum Tree. Her essay, “Growth,” looks at the experience of a tumor
extraction and the end of a relationship. The essay is the featured piece for the journal’s Fall 2024
issue. The issue can be purchased (print or digital) here.
Assistant Professor of English Sonia Del Hierro presented at the fourth annual La Chola
Conference at East Los Angeles College on September 27-29. This conference centers Chola
identities and communities, bringing together activists, artists, and scholars. Dr. Del Hierro’s talk,
“Las Cholas’ Sartorial Scripts: A Chicana Feminist Analysis,” presented part of her research on the
ways fashion has constituted political and cultural tools against racism, sexism, and colonialism.
The program can be found here.
Professor of English Michael Saenger published an essay titled “Shakespeare and Multilinguistic
Affairs: A Strategy for Reading Across Borders” in Contemporary Readings in Global Performances
of Shakespeare, edited by Alexa Alice Joubin. The book is published by Bloomsbury Academic as
part of The Arden Shakespeare series.

--- Page 12 of 39 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
September 2024
Professor of English Michael Saenger published a blog post at the Times of Israel, titled “How to
Spot Antisemitism.” It can be read here.
Professor of English Eileen Cleere delivered a paper at Baylor University’s Armstrong Browning
Library as a part of EVENT 2024, a hub conference sponsored by the North American Victorian
Studies Association on September 19–21. Her paper was titled “Laugh Track: Pregnancy and
Pronatalism in Jane Austen’s Sense and Sensibility.”
August 2024
English major and Associate Editor at Penguin Random House Lydia Gregovic ’19 recently
published her first novel, titled The Monstrous Kind. The novel, a fantasy retelling of Jane
Austen’s Sense and Sensibility, is set to release in early September and can be pre-ordered here.

--- Page 13 of 39 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Professor of English Michael Saenger was flown to Toronto to participate in a video documentary
on his little brother, Mohan Govindasamy, aka Launders. Govindasamy was matched with Saenger
through the Toronto office of Big Brothers / Big Sisters, and he is currently a major figure in e-
sports. The video can be seen here.
Assistant Professor of English Sonia Del Hierro co-presented “Rasquachismo: A Chicana Digital
Humanities Praxis” on August 9 at DH2024, the annual conference of the Alliance of Digital
Humanities Organizations.
Assistant Professor of Sociology Amanda Hernandez, Assistant Professor of Sociology Adriana
Ponce, Assistant Professor of Political Science Alexander Goodwin, Assistant Professor of
History Bryan Kauma, and Assistant Professor of English Sonia Del Hierro had their abstract
“Teaching With Color: Thematic Hires and the Politics of Teaching in Texas” accepted as a special
feature for the 10 Year Reflection Special Issue on pedagogy and hope in the Journal for the
Sociology of Race & Ethnicity. The article will be both a pedagogical reflection on hope in the
classroom and on thematic hires. The issue will be available in early 2025.

--- Page 14 of 39 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
July 2024
Professor of English Michael Saenger has been invited by Old Dominion University’s Institute for
Jewish Studies and Interfaith Understanding to take part in their new series, “The Nosh: Taking a
Bite Out of Hard Conversations.” Saenger will co-facilitate discussion on the current Israel-
Palestine conflict and its impact on American academics.
April 2024
Professor of English Michael Saenger published an essay that was featured on the Times of Israel
website, titled “Keeping the light on, in my campus office.” The essay advocates activism to
combat rising antisemitism at American universities. He was nominated to join the Steering
Committee of the new initiative he has helped to launch, discussed in the essay, Faculty Against
Antisemitism Movement. The essay can be read here.
Professor of English Michael Saenger was invited to contribute to the Antisemitism Studies
program at Gratz College. In pioneering its new Masters program in Antisemitism Studies, Gratz
College joins the expertise of its own faculty with experts from around the world.

--- Page 15 of 39 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
March 2024
Professor and Austin Term Chair in English Eileen Cleere presided over the 39th meeting of INCS
(Interdisciplinary Nineteenth-Century Studies) in Cincinnati, OH, March 21-24, under the theme of
“Trans-Turns in the Nineteenth Century.” In addition to whipping Board votes for a successful
overhaul of the organization’s bylaws and constitution and announcing prizes and initiatives at
the membership banquet, Cleere chaired a panel on “Theorizing Trans-historically.”
Professor and Austin Term Chair of English Eileen Cleere published an article in the most recent
issue of the Children’s Literature Association Quarterly. The essay, “Girls on Fire: Mary Elizabeth
Braddon’s Lady Audley’s Secret (1861), Maud Hart Lovelace’s Betsy and Tacy Go Downtown
(1943), and the Adolescent Sublimation of Victorian Sensation” was reworked from a Paideia
Lecture, and can be read here.
February 2024
Professor of English Michael Saenger co-authored an op-ed in the Times of Israel with David
Mikics, Moores Distinguished Professor in the Department of English and the Honors College,
University of Houston. The article “Trouble at the Modern Language Association” opposes

--- Page 16 of 39 ---

academic antisemitism and extremism and advocates for dialog and diversity in American campus
life.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Assistant Professor of English Sonia Del Hierro gave a public talk in a Modern Language
Association webinar where she co-presented her recent collaborative publication, “Radical
Collegiality and Joy in Graduate Education,” included in the edited collection Graduate Education
for a Thriving Humanities Ecosystem.
Part-Time Faculty Member in the English Department Chelsey Clammer ’05 and had her recent
lyric essay, “The Ruins of What Never Was,” published in Volume 4 of iO Literary Journal,
available here.
Professor of English Michael Saenger published “The University after October 7” in TELOSscope,
which is part of Telos: Cultural Theory of the Contemporary.

--- Page 17 of 39 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
January 2024
Professor of English and Austin Term Chair Eileen Cleere has been elected to the Presidency of
INCS, the Interdisciplinary Nineteenth-Century Studies Association. Effective January 1, 2024,
Cleere will lead the international organization for a two-year period, convening the annual
convention in Cincinnati, OH, in 2024 and Genoa, Italy, in 2025. The organization has hundreds of
active members who write and publish in multiple languages, ranging from English, History, and
Art History to Environmental Studies, Feminist Studies, and Gender and Sexuality Studies. Learn
more about the organization here.
Professor of English Michael Saenger presented a paper at the Modern Language Association
Convention in Philadelphia. His paper, “Double Tongue: Multiple Languages in Shakespeare,”
examines the theoretical status of linguistic mixture in the early modern period. At the
convention, Saenger also advocated for social justice and academic freedom at the Delegate
Assembly of the Modern Language Association, and his activism was covered in the national
press. Saenger published an op-ed on the struggles of the organization, which was presented as a
Featured Post in the Times of Israel. He then presented an invited talk on Academic Engagement
Network’s Short Course in Phoenix, “A Break in Discourse after October 7.”
November 2023
On October 26th and 27th, Assistant Professor of English Sonia Del Hierro participated in the
U.S. Latino Digital Humanities’ Mellon Grants-in-Aid Showcase, a public presentation by 2023

--- Page 18 of 39 ---

recipients of a digital humanities grant, funded by the Mellon Foundation and supported by
Recovering the US Hispanic Literary Heritage/Arte Público Press and the University of Houston.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
She co-presented “Señora Power: Updates and Challenges” with her research collaborators, Gaby
Barrios of the University of California-Los Angeles and Sophia Martinez-Abbud of Rice University.
October 2023
Professor of English and Austin Term Chair Eileen Cleere gave a talk entitled “Grooming Habits:
Revisiting Victorian (Child) Marriage in the Age of #MeToo” at the annual meeting of VISAWUS
(Victorian Interdisciplinary Studies Association of the Western United States) at the Seattle Public
Library on October 19-21. She also participated in a pedagogy workshop dedicated to “Bringing
the Climate Crisis into the Classroom.”
Professor of English Michael Saenger co-authored with Professor of American Studies and
Humanities Nancy Koppelman at The Evergreen State College an essay entitled “Before the War:
Educators in Israel / Palestine” for the Times of Israel. Their essay relates their experiences leading
a group of American university professionals through encounters with different perspectives in
the Middle East.

--- Page 19 of 39 ---

Professor of English Michael Saenger delivered an invited keynote lecture at Waseda University
in Tokyo at an international conference entitled “Translation of Shakespeare as Cultural Exchange.”
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Also presenting was Nick Baylor ’25, who traveled to Japan with Dr. Saenger.
June 2023
Professor of English Michael Saenger represented Academic Engagement Network on a trip to
Israel and the Palestinian Territories. The Signature Seminar Series participants – senior and mid-
level DEI and Student Affairs administrators from U.S. universities and colleges – traveled to West
and East Jerusalem, Tel Aviv, Haifa, and Ramallah between June 6 and June 14 for an experiential
learning opportunity. They engaged with prominent figures at Israeli and Palestinian universities
and NGOs to see how people from various perspectives, including Druze, Jewish, Muslim, and
secular backgrounds, are working to build bridges of understanding and how that can be relevant
to improving campus climate in the US.
May 2023
Professor of English Michael Saenger completed a three-week residency at the department of
European, American, and Intercultural Studies, Sapienza Università di Roma. He led seminars, gave
lectures, and collaborated with Iolanda Plescia, Associate Professor of English in that department,
as well as Laetitia Sansonetti, Senior Lecturer in English at Université Paris Nanterre, both of whom
are leading figures in the study of Shakespeare’s use of multiple languages and the question of
translation. His final lecture was entitled “Accidental Multilingualism in Shakespeare.”

--- Page 20 of 39 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Feburary 2023
Professor of English Michael Saenger and Associate Professor of Theatre Sergio
Costola collaborated on a book titled Shakespeare in Succession: Translation and Time (McGill-
Queen’s University Press, 2023). The edited collection brings together scholars from eight
different countries and five continents.
January 2023
Professor of English Michael Saenger co-authored an essay with Cary Nelson, who is Professor
Emeritus of English and Jubilee Professor of Liberal Arts and Sciences at the University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign, and served as president of the American Association of University Professors
between 2006 and 2012. The essay, entitled, “When Discourse about Israel Becomes Antisemitic: A
Guide for the Perplexed.” Fathom is a prominent British journal that focuses on the Middle East.
Read the essay here.

--- Page 21 of 39 ---

Professor of English Michael Saenger delivered an invited talk at the Academic Engagement
Network’s Short Course in Miami on January 9. The talk was entitled “Addressing Challenges in
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
the Humanities & Social Sciences: Toward a Better Understanding & Use of Key Terms in
Combating BDS and Israel Delegitimization.”
October 2022
Professor of English Michael Saenger published a pamphlet with the Academic Engagement
Network titled Finding Common Ground: A Strategy for Combating the Anti-Israel Movement in the
U.S. Academy
September 2022
Professor of English Michael Saenger published a review of Hamlet Translations: Prisms of
Cultural Encounters across the Globe , edited by Márta Minier and Lily Kahn. The review appeared
in Translation Studies, a leading international academic journal.

--- Page 22 of 39 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
August 2022
Assistant Professor of English Rebecca Evans published a reflection on teaching Octavia Butler’s
novel Parable of the Sower as part of the Association for the Study of Literature and Environment’s
Zoom In pedagogy series.
May 2022
Assistant Professor of English Rebecca Evans took part in the symposium The Aesthetics of
Infrastructure/The Infrastructure of Aesthetics at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign,
which was held April 21–22. An interdisciplinary group of scholars shared their work on
infrastructure and the environmental humanities at the event.
April 2022
Professor of English and Austin Term Chair Eileen Cleere has had an article accepted for
publication by Children’s Literature Association Quarterly.The essay, “Going Downtown: ‘Right
Reading,’ Mental Hygiene, and the Adolescent Sublimation of Victorian Sensation,” was first
presented as a Paideia Connections Lecture in 2015.

--- Page 23 of 39 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Professor of English and Austin Term Chair Eileen Cleere presented a paper at the
2022 Interdisciplinary Nineteenth-Century Studies (INCS) Annual Conference, held March 24–27 in
Salt Lake City, Utah. Her paper, “The Stratified Family Story: Dinah Mulock Craik’s The Head of the
Family (1852) and the Problem of Pedophilia,” is part of a larger project about the discourses of
rape, grooming, and sexual assault within the genre of fiction known as the Victorian family story.
Cleere also chaired a panel titled “Queer Studies, Performance, and Desire.”
Professor of English and Austin Term Chair Eileen Cleere has been promoted to first vice
president of Interdisciplinary Nineteenth-Century Studies (INCS), an international group of
scholars dedicated to interdisciplinary discussion and research.
March 2022
Professor of English and Austin Term Chair Eileen Cleere’s article “Rape in Public: Overlooking
Child Sexual Assault in Charlotte Mary Yonge’s The Daisy Chain” was published in Victorian
Literature and Culture. Morgan Mosby ’20, Cleere’s former undergraduate research assistant,
helped frame the initial ideas for the essay around issues of rape’s historic invisibility within
literary and feminist criticism.

--- Page 24 of 39 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Assistant Professor of English Rebecca Evans was featured in conversation with American Book
Award-winning and Man Booker Prize-shortlisted novelist Ruth Ozeki on an episode of the
podcast Novel Dialogues.The episode is available on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, and elsewhere
online.
Feburary 2022
Recently retired Professor of English and holder of the McManis University Chair Helene
Meyers recently published two reviews of films that focus on reproductive justice. Her review
of Aftershock, a documentary on the epidemic of Black maternal mortality, appeared on
the Lilithblog, and her review of My So-Called Selfish Life, a documentary on childfree women, was
published by the Jewish Women’s Archive blog.
Recently retired Professor of English and holder of the McManis University Chair Helene
Meyers talked about her new book Movie-Made Jewson the Revealerpodcast, hosted by New York
University’s Center for Media and Religion. An excerpt from her book was also published in
the February issue of the Revealer online magazine.

--- Page 25 of 39 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
January 2022
Assistant Professor of English Rebecca Evans delivered two papers at the 2022 Modern Language
Association (MLA) Annual Convention, held virtually and in person January 6–9 in Washington,
D.C.. The first was part of an environmental humanities roundtable titled “Apocalyptic Realisms”;
the second was part of a panel titled “The Unforeseeable,” sponsored by the Prose Fiction Forum.
Assistant Professor of English Rebecca Evans published a review of Neal Stephenson’s latest
novel, Termination Shock,in the Los Angeles Review of Books.
Professor of English and Austin Term Chair Eileen Cleere delivered a paper at the 2022 Modern
Language Association (MLA) Annual Convention, held January 6–9 in Washington, D.C. Her paper,
“Pivotingand Other Words I’ll Never Use Again,” was delivered remotely when infection rates and
travel conditions shifted most of the conference online. The paper was part of a panel
commemorating the forthcoming publication of “Unprecedented Disruptions: Nineteenth-Century
Scholars Reflect on 2020,” an issue of Nineteenth-Century Contexts Cleere coedited.

--- Page 26 of 39 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
December 2021
Professor of English and McManis University Chair Helene Meyers published “7 Jewish Feminist
Highlights of 2021” in Lilith Magazine’s blog.
A profile of Professor of English and McManis University Chair Helene Meyers appeared in The
Key Reporter, Phi Beta Kappa’s online publication.
November 2021
An excerpt from Movie-Made Jews: An American Tradition, a recent book by Professor of English
and McManis University Chair Helene Meyers, was published in the fall issue of Lilith Magazine.

--- Page 27 of 39 ---

Professor and Austin Term Chair in English Eileen Cleere reviewed My Victorian Novel: Critical
Essays in the Personal Voice,edited by Annette R. Federico, for the journal Nineteenth-Century
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Contexts. The review appeared in volume 43, issue 4.
Professor and Joanne Powers Austin Term Chair in English Eileen Cleere coedited a volume
of Nineteenth-Century Contextsdevoted to the unprecedented disruptions of 2020. Her
introduction to the special issue, cowritten with Professors George Robb (William Paterson
University) and Narin Hassan (Georgia Tech), is titled “Zooming In: Epidemic, Pandemic, Endemic.”
Assistant Professor of English Rebecca Evans and Southwestern students Coleen Roche ’22
and Elena Welsh ’23 presented a paper titled “Public Humanities Pedagogy for the Present” on
the panel “Social Media and the Public Sphere” at the annual conference of the Association for
the Study of the Arts of the Present. The paper detailed the methods and findings of the team’s
summer 2021 faculty-student research project and reflected on how the project changed their
perspectives on collaborative humanities research and public-facing literary scholarship.
Associate Professor of English Michael Saenger published an article titled “Shakespeare and
Linguistic Change” in The Palgrave Encyclopedia of Global Shakespeare. Saenger also presented a
talk titled “Addressing Challenges in the Humanities & Social Sciences: Toward a Better
Understanding and Use of Key Terms in Combating BDS and Israel Delegitimization”

--- Page 28 of 39 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
October 2021
At the 2021 Annual Meeting of the American Studies Association, Assistant Professor of
English Rebecca Evans presided over the Environment and Culture Caucus’s professional
development panel, “Teaching for Justice: A Pedagogy Working Session,” and chaired and
presented on a session titled “Extinction Rebellion: A Roundtable on the Performative Politics of
Revolt,” where she discussed both the disruptive and the theatrical elements of Extinction
Rebellion and other environmental justice movements and the popular and media attention paid
to each.
September 2021
Assistant Professor of English Rebecca Evans and Associate Professor of Environmental
Studies Joshua Long were interviewed for a story for the online magazine Grist. The story, “Can
Climate Fiction Deliver Climate Justice?” by Maddie Stone, was published on September 28.
Among other subjects, the article discusses a Southwestern summer 2021 faculty–student
research project, “Climate Literature and Climate Literacy,” led by Evans with two current
Southwestern English students, Coleen Roche ’23 and Elena Welsh ’23.

--- Page 29 of 39 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Professor of English and McManis University Chair Helene Meyers was interviewed by Alma, a
Jewish culture website that prides itself on being “feminist and full of chutzpah,” about her new
book Movie-Made Jews: An American Tradition. Read the interview.
Assistant Professor of English Rebecca Evans published an article in the journal American
Literature titled “ Geomemory and Genre Friction: Infrastructural Violence and Plantation Afterlives
in Contemporary African American Novels .” The article is drawn from the fourth chapter of her
current book project and is part of a joint special issue of American Literature and Resilience: A
Journal of the Environmental Humanities titled “The Infrastructure of Emergency.”
June 2021
Professor Emeritus of English David Gaines read his poem “Changing Course” at the Poets of the
Northland reading on May 26, 2021. It received the grand prize in the Duluth Dylan Festival
Poetry Contest, a celebration of Bob Dylan’s 80th birthday hosted by the Nobel laureate’s fans
and scholars in his hometown.

--- Page 30 of 39 ---

Associate Professor of English Michael Saenger gave two invited talks recently. On April 15, he
delivered the keynote, titled “Shakespeare’s Fathers,” at the distinguished lecture series
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Unravelling the Bard: Through Global Perspectives hosted by Goswami Ganesh Dutta Sanatan
Dharma College, in Chandigarh, India. On May 25, he was an invited discussant responding to
Alexa Alice Joubin, professor of English, theatre, international affairs, and East Asian languages
and cultures at George Washington University. This event was hosted by Haun Saussy, university
professor of comparative literature at the University of Chicago. The topic was Joubin’s recent
book, Shakespeare and East Asia(Oxford University Press).
March 2021
Professor of English and Holder of McManis University Chair Helene Meyers was an invited
participant on the panel “Helping Humanities Majors Tackle a Tough Job Market from a Position
of Strength” at the annual meeting of the National Humanities Alliance.
Feburary 2021
Associate Professor of English Michael Saenger published an entry in the Palgrave Encyclopedia
of Global Shakespeare on “ Scotland, PA (dir. Billy Morrissette, USA, 2001),” which can be viewed
here .

--- Page 31 of 39 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
January 2021
Associate Professor of English Michael Saenger organized and hosted a webinar titled “Terms,
Language, and Translation: Palestine and Israel.” The event featured Jessica Emami, adjunct
professor of sociology at Marymount University in Arlington, Virginia, and Ghaith al-Omari, a
senior fellow in The Washington Institute’s Irwin Levy Family Program on the U.S.–Israel Strategic
Relationship and former executive director of the American Task Force on Palestine.
Assistant Professor of English Rebecca Evans presented twice at the 2021 Modern Language
Association Annual Convention, speaking as part of the roundtable “Infrastructures of Emergency”
on January 7 and giving a talk titled “Apocalypse Now, Then, Ongoing: Genre Friction and
Anthropocene Literature” as part of the panel “Post-Apocalypse Now” on January 9.
Professor of English and McManis University Chair Helene Meyers published “7 Jewish Feminist
Highlights of 2020” in Lilith Magazine’s blog.

--- Page 32 of 39 ---

Assistant Professor of English Rebecca Evans was elected to a five-year term on the executive
committee of the Modern Language Association’s Science and Literature forum. Her coedited
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
volume The Palgrave Handbook of 20th- and 21st-Century Literature and Science was released at
the end of 2020.
December 2020
Associate Professor of English Michael Saenger published a featured post on the Times of Israel
website titled “Texas Saves Progressivism.” See the article here .
November 2020
Associate Professor of English Michael Saenger published a featured post on the Times of Israel
website titled “Texas Saves Progressivism.” See the article here .

--- Page 33 of 39 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
October 2020
Associate Professor of English Michael Saenger presented “Interlinguistic Shakespeare in East
Asia” at the virtual 49th Southwest Conference on Asian Studies, October 23, 2020.
September 2020
Professor Emeritus of English David Gaines had his article “I Climbed Up Friday Mountain and
Down Barsana Hill” published in the Wall Street Journal. Read it here.
August 2020
Professor of English and Joanne Powers Austin Term Chair Eileen Cleere has had an article
accepted for publication in Victorian Literature and Culture.Initial research for the essay, “Rape in
Public: Overlooking Child Sexual Assault in Charlotte Mary Yonge’s 1856 The Daisy Chain,” was
conducted in 2019 by Cleere’s summer research assistant, Morgan Mosby ’20, a position funded
by the Powers Austin endowment. The final article was inspired by the #MeToo movement and is
situated methodologically within the developing academic field of new rape studies.

--- Page 34 of 39 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Professor of English and McManis University Chair Helene Meyers reviewed R. L. Maizes’s Other
People’s Petsfor the Washington Independent Review of Books. Read her review here.
Assistant Professor of English Rebecca Evans published a review of N. K. Jemisin’s newest novel in
the Los Angeles Review of Books. Read it here.
July 2020
Associate Professor of English Michael Saenger , in his capacity as chair of the section for faculty
in the humanities at Academic Engagement Network, cochaired an electronic conference with
Ayal Feinberg, assistant professor of political science at Texas A&M University–Commerce and
senior fellow at the Centre for Analysis of the Radical Right. The panel, “Scholarly Perspectives on
Jews and Social and Ideological Space across the Academy,” took place on June 24, 2020. The
speakers included Simon Bronner, dean of the College of General Studies and distinguished
professor of social sciences and business at the University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee; Albert Cheng,
assistant professor at the Department of Education Reform in the College of Education and Health
Professions at the University of Arkansas, Fayetteville; André Villeneuve, Catholic biblical scholar
and assistant professor in the Honors College at Azusa Pacific University; and Ken Stern, director
of the Bard Center for the Study of Hate at Bard College.

--- Page 35 of 39 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
June 2020
Associate Professor of English Michael Saenger published a blog post for the Times of Israel
titled “Why Black Lives Matter for Jews.” Read it here .
Professor of English and McManis University Chair Helene Meyers published “Surviving the
Pandemic: Suggestions for Liberal-Arts Colleges” in Inside Higher Ed.
May 2020
Professor Emeritus of English David Gaines reviewed Baron Wormser’s novel Songs from a Voice:
Being the Recollections, Stanzas, and Observations of Abe Runyan, Songwriter and Performer
(Woodhall Press, 2020) for The Midwest Review . You can read the review here .

--- Page 36 of 39 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
April 2020
Professor of English David Gaines contributed a chapter titled “Dylan’s Literary Fans: The
Economy of Prestige and Reading with One Hand Waving Free” to the conference volume New
Approaches to Bob Dylan (Southern Denmark University Press). The chapter grew out of his spring
2018 capstone course, American Nobelity, and his conference presentation in Denmark that
semester.
Professor of English David Gaines published “His Back Pages” in The Bridge (vol. 66, spring
2020), the leading journal of Bob Dylan studies in Europe. Therein, he reviewed “History of a
Voice” poet Bryan Wormser’s new Dylan-inspired novel.
March 2020
Joanne Powers Austin Chair and Professor of English Eileen Cleere delivered a paper titled
“Ecopsychology and the Greening of Jane Eyre” at the annual Interdisciplinary Nineteenth-Century
Studies (INCS) Conference in Los Angeles, CA, March 4–8, 2020. She also participated in a
pedagogy workshop called “How to Teach Victorian Literature Online.” Cleere currently serves on
the governing board of INCS as second vice president.

--- Page 37 of 39 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Associate Professor of English and Chair of Early Modern Studies Michael Saenger has been
named chair of the section for faculty in the humanities at the Academic Engagement Network
(AEN). AEN is a national organization of faculty members and staff on American university and
college campuses that seeks to oppose efforts to delegitimize Israel; to support robust discussion,
research, and education about Israel in the academy; to promote campus free expression and
academic freedom; and to counter antisemitism when it occurs on campus.
Professor of English David Gaines reviewed Sam Wasson’s The Big Goodbye, a book about the
making of the 1974 film Chinatown, in the February 25th Austin Chronicle. Read his review here.
Feburary 2020
Associate Professor of English and Chair of Early Modern Studies Michael Saenger has been
named chair of the section for faculty in the humanities at the Academic Engagement Network
(AEN). AEN is a national organization of faculty members and staff on American university and
college campuses that seeks to oppose efforts to delegitimize Israel; to support robust discussion,
research, and education about Israel in the academy; to promote campus free expression and
academic freedom; and to counter antisemitism when it occurs on campus.

--- Page 38 of 39 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Professor of English David Gaines reviewed Sam Wasson’s The Big Goodbye, a book about the
making of the 1974 film Chinatown, in the February 25th Austin Chronicle. Read his review here.
January 2020
Professor of English and Joanne Powers Austin Term Chair Eileen Cleere has been elected second
vice president of Interdisciplinary Nineteenth-Century Studies (INCS), an international
organization. Her term will run 2020–2021.
Professor of English and McManis University Chair Helene Meyers published “7 Jewish Feminist
Highlights of 2019” in the Lilith Blog. Read it here.
Professor of English and McManis University Chair Helene Meyers was an invited participant on
the roundtable “Building Bridges: Feminist Mentorship, Collaboration, and Coalition Building” at
the annual meeting of the Association for Jewish Studies. Meyers talked about diverse forms of
mentoring, including public scholarship.

--- Page 39 of 39 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
GEORGETOWN, TEXAS
512.863.6511
CONTACT