--- Page 1 of 15 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/art-history/notable-faculty-student-achi...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
AARRTT HHIISSTTOORRYY
Notable Faculty & Student Achievements
NNoovveemmbbeerr 22002255
Visiting Assistant Professor of Art History Rachel Daphne Weiss published “Delineations:
Jan Hackaert’s Graphic Geognosy” in Art History. It can be read here.
SSeepptteemmbbeerr 22002255
Professor of Art History Allison Miller published a review of the book Bronze Mirrors in
Ancient China: Artistry and Technique by Kin Sum Li in caa.reviews, an online, open-access
journal published by the College Art Association. You can read the review here.
Professor of Art History Allison Miller presented the paper “Origin Stories: A Bronze
1 of 16 3/23/26, 4:17 PM

--- Page 2 of 15 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/art-history/notable-faculty-student-achi...
‘Cymbal’ from Hepu as a Case Study” on August 19 at the 10th Worldwide Conference of
the Society for East Asian Archaeology, held at the University of Aberdeen, Scotland. The
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
paper was given in a session titled “New Approaches to Gifting, Tribute, and Trade across
Asia (11th c. BCE-10th c. CE).”
MMaayy 22002255
Associate Professor of Art History Allison Miller gave a presentation, titled “The Gaze of
Animals in Western Han Bronze Sculpture,” on May 9 at the “Same and/or Other? Animals in
East Asian History” workshop, organized by the Chinese Animal Studies Network. The
workshop was held at the Institute of Sinology and East Asian Studies at the University of
Münster, Germany from May 8-10.
Associate Professor of Art History Allison Miller gave an invited lecture (in Chinese) at the
University of Science and Technology of China (中国科学技术⼤学) in Hefei, Anhui Province,
titled “Rediscovering Early China’s Polychrome Bronzes” (中国早期⻘铜器彩绘的再发现), on
May 6.
2 of 16 3/23/26, 4:17 PM

--- Page 3 of 15 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/art-history/notable-faculty-student-achi...
Associate Professor of Art History Allison Miller gave an invited lecture (in Chinese) at
Gua
M
ng
en
x
u
i Unive
S
r
e
s
a
i
r
t
c
y
h
for Nationalities (⼴⻄⺠族⼤学), titled “Redisc
A
o
p
v
p
e
l
r
y
ing
V
E
is
a
it
rly
M
C
a
h
jo
in
rs
a
&
’s
Minors
Polychrome Bronzes” (中国早期⻘铜器彩绘的再发现) on April 28.
MMaarrcchh 22002255
Professor of Sociology Maria Lowe, sociology and business graduate ThuyMi Phung ’23,
and sociology and art history graduate Katherine Holcomb ’23 presented their co-
authored paper titled “The Interaction of Race and Racial Grievance: Predictors of American
Attitudes about Critical Race Theory” at the Eastern Sociological Society annual meeting in
Boston from March 6-9.
NNoovveemmbbeerr 22002244
Professor of Art History Kimberly Smith published an essay titled “Austria’s Dilemma:
Wartime Politics and Propaganda in Schiele’s Landscapes” in the catalog Egon Schiele:
Living Landscapes (Prestel, 2024), published to accompany the exhibition of the same
name at the Neue Galerie in New York. The essay examines Schiele’s participation in the
1917 Austrian Exhibition in Stockholm as an intensely concentrated moment of externally
directed propaganda, in which his images of organic towns and rural scenes functioned as
environmentally deterministic claims for a pluralistic yet united Austria in a post-war Europe.
3 of 16 3/23/26, 4:17 PM

--- Page 4 of 15 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/art-history/notable-faculty-student-achi...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
SSeepptteemmbbeerr 22002244
Associate Professor of Art History Allison Miller gave a virtual invited presentation on
“Purple in Early China” to a Chinese art history class at Georgetown University in
Washington, D.C. on September 23.
Art history and theatre graduate Gabriella Gonzalez Biziou ’12 starred in and associated-
produced a beautifully executed short film titled Foolhardy Love. Gabriella is returning to
Texas this month to promote the film, which follows a couple confronted with two very
different desires for their future. An official selection for the Beverly Hills Film Festival
2024, Foolhardy Lovescreens in Austin at the Austin Under the Stars Film Festival on
Thursday, September 12 at 7:30 p.m., and at the Austin Spotlight Film Festival on Saturday,
September 14 at 7:00 p.m. The film has been nominated for Best Narrative (at both
festivals), Best Director, Best Actress (at both festivals), and Best Actor. The trailer can be
viewed here.
4 of 16 3/23/26, 4:17 PM

--- Page 5 of 15 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/art-history/notable-faculty-student-achi...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
AAuugguusstt 22002244
Associate Professor of Art History Allison Miller gave the presentation, “The Form-Matter
Nexus in the Early Chinese Intellectual Tradition and its Implication for the Genealogy of
Chinese Art” on the panel, “Rethinking the Form-Matter Nexus after the Material Turn” on
June 25 at the CIHA (Comité International d’Histoire de l’Art) conference in Lyon, France.
MMaayy 22002244
Professor of Art History and Margarett Root Brown Chair in Fine Arts Kimberly
Smith published four “in-focus” essays in the exhibition catalogue, Expressionists:
Kandinsky, Münter and the Blue Rider(Tate Publishing, in association with Yale University
Press). The essays address specific collaborations and relationships in the Blue Rider
movement, and are titled: “The French Connection,” “Else Lasker-Schüler and Franz Marc’s
Mail Art,” “Reiterinnen: Women Riders,” and “Fritz Burger: The Art Historical Connection.”
The catalogue was edited by Natalia Sidlina, and published in conjunction with the landmark
exhibition, “Expressionists: Kandinsky, Münter and the Blue Rider” at the Tate Modern,
London, on view until October 20, 2024.
5 of 16 3/23/26, 4:17 PM

--- Page 6 of 15 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/art-history/notable-faculty-student-achi...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
AApprriill 22002244
Two East Asian Studies faculty members, Associate Professor of Art History Allison
Miller and Visiting Professor of Economics Maorui Yang, and two students attended the
ASIANetwork conference in Atlanta, Georgia from April 12-14. Natalie Davis ’27 presented
her poster titled, “Dueling Depictions: Zhang Zhixin and the Politics of Femininity in Chinese
Scar Art.” Kate Medlock ’26 presented her poster titled, “Reviving the Past: A Mid-Western
Zhou Jade Pendant and its Neolithic References.” Maorui presented on the panel, “Teaching
and Research in the Liberal Arts: ASIANetwork-Luce Postdoctoral Fellows.”
Four art history students presented their research at the virtual SUNY New Paltz
Undergraduate Art History Symposium from April 11-14. David Salvania ’27 presented his
paper titled, “Feng Zikai’s Advocation of Unity within Shanghai through the Subtlety of
Cartoons.” Natalie Davis ’27 presented her paper titled, “Dueling Depictions: Zhang Zhixin
and the Politics of Femininity in Chinese Scar Art.” Ceridwen Grady ’24 presented her
paper titled, “Accessibility Archive: Finding Sensory Equity in Olafur Eliasson’s
Installations.” Hannah Chock ’24 presented her paper titled, “Invitation and Alienation:
Semiotic Constructions of Holy Bodies in Caravaggio’s Madonna di Loreto.”
MMaarrcchh 22002244
6 of 16 3/23/26, 4:17 PM

--- Page 7 of 15 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/art-history/notable-faculty-student-achi...
Associate Professor of Art History Allison Miller gave an invited presentation on February
26 in a webinar organized by the Association for Chinese Art History titled “Chinese Art
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
History in the Undergraduate Curriculum.”
OOccttoobbeerr 22002233
Professor of Art History Thomas Noble Howe co-published a peer-reviewed online
monograph with Prof. Joseph C. Williams (Univ. of Maryland), Adan Ramos (UMd), and
Gabriel Maslen (UMd and Tecnico di Milano), “The Role of the Field Architect in the Digital
Age: Integrating Human and Electronic Recording at the Villa Arianna in Roman Stabiae”, The
Journal for Field Archaeology, Received 17 Apr 2023, Accepted 04 Sep 2023, Published
online: 11 Oct 2023. Howe is the overall director of the project and began to develop the
technique of using conventional digital survey commands in the then-nascent digital laser
EMD (Electronic Measuring Distance) surveying instruments to develop an efficient means
of using surveying line commands to create a precise 3D “line wire cage drawing” to guide
the completion of on-site hand drawings. He was the chief field architect and associate
director of the American Academy in Rome Palatine Excavation project (1988-1994) and has
been the director general of the Restoring Ancient Stabiae project since 1998.
Professor of Art History Kimberly Smith gave a talk entitled “Beyond Japonisme: Charlotte
Berend-Corinth’s Wartime Watercolors” at the 2023 Feminist Art History Conference, held
online and in-person, hosted and organized by American University, Washington DC,
September 30 - October 1.
7 of 16 3/23/26, 4:17 PM

--- Page 8 of 15 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/art-history/notable-faculty-student-achi...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
FFeebbuurraarryy 22002233
Professor of Art and Art History Thomas Howe was invited to attend the opening of a major
new exhibition of Roman painting at the San Antonio Museum of Art, “Roman Landscapes:
Visions of Nature and Myth from Rome and Pompeii,” on February 23. Howe was part of the
technical advisory committee for the exhibit, and several frescoes from his archaeological
site of the Roman villas of Stabiae were included in the exhibit. The exhibit will be open until
May 21, 2023. Howe will be lecturing in San Antonio on recent discoveries from his site in
April.
On February 8-10, Professor of Art and Art History Thomas Howe was invited to do a
department review of an undergraduate interdisciplinary architecture major at Birmingham
Southern College in Birmingham, AL, of a program introduced five years ago largely based
on the Architecture Minor which Howe introduced at Southwestern in 1985.
8 of 16 3/23/26, 4:17 PM

--- Page 9 of 15 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/art-history/notable-faculty-student-achi...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
AAuugguusstt 22002222
Professor of Art History Thomas Howe recently reviewed two books for the American
Journal of Archaeology : Oplontis: Villa A (“of Poppaea”) at Torre Annunziata, Italy, Volume
2: The Decorations: Painting, Stucco, Pavements, Sculptures , edited by John R. Clarke and
Nayla K. Muntasser, and Archaeological Exploration of Sardis Report 7: The Temple of
Artemis at Sardis by Fikret K. Yegül (review to be published in January 2023). The two
books represent two radically different approaches to current high-quality archaeological
publication. The first is completely digital and lavishly illustrated beyond the normal means
of hard-copy publication, while the second is a very traditional hard copy with plates, also
lavishly illustrated with line drawings by the author. Clarke and Howe currently lead the
excavations of the two largest villas in the Bay of Naples (Stabiae and Oplontis), and Clarke
and Muntasser have both lectured at Southwestern. Howe began his archaeological career
in 1980 at Sardis and made a few short contributions that Yegül generously credits with
having clarified the controversial issue of the chronology of the Artemis temple.
JJuullyy 22002222
For the first time in three years, Professor of Art History Thomas Noble Howe conducted a
field season at the ancient Roman villas of Stabiae. Small teams from the University of
Maryland, the University of Akron, and Cornell University joined Howe and Southwestern
student Oliver Johnson ’23 in digitally recording the architecture of one of the villas (Villa
Airanna). Software engineer Sean Cahall began work with Howe and others to establish a
GIS database, perhaps to be maintained by another university in a full field season next
year. Howe is working on a major restructuring of the managing scientific committee
involving some dozen European and American universities.
9 of 16 3/23/26, 4:17 PM

--- Page 10 of 15 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/art-history/notable-faculty-student-achi...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Associate Professor of Art History Allison Miller gave an invited talk in Chinese on June 11
titled “秦汉彩绘⻘铜器:材质、装饰⼯艺与价值” (“Painted Bronzes of the Qin and Han:
Materials, Decorative Techniques, and Value”) at the virtual conference 制器尚象 (Making
Artifacts by Modeling Images), hosted by the Chinese National Academy of Arts (中国艺术研
究院) in Beijing, China. The conference title derives from a phrase in the Book of Changes,
which discusses emblematic figures as archetypes for artifacts. Miller presented on a panel
titled “Craft and Form.”
JJuunnee 22002222
Associate Professor of Art History Allison Miller published the article “Painting Bronze in
Early China: Uncovering Polychromy in China’s Classical Sculptural Tradition” in the spring
2022 issue of Archives of Asian Art.
AApprriill 22002222
Professor of Art History Thomas Noble Howe was recently invited by Academiato conduct
a review of an article about St. Andrew’s Church in Kyiv, Ukraine: An Appreciation by
10 of 16 3/23/26, 4:17 PM

--- Page 11 of 15 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/art-history/notable-faculty-student-achi...
Myroslava Hartmond (Halushka).
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Howe also was invited by the office of Rep. John Carter to be a judge for the Congressional
Art Competition on April 27. The winning artwork will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one
year.
JJuunnee 22002211
Professor of Art History Thomas Howe and his collaborator Professor Ingrid Rowland
(Notre Dame) have just published a monograph translation into Chinese of their Vitruvius:
Ten Books on Architecture (originally published by Cambridge University Press, 1999), 维
特鲁维亚 波利奥, 关于建筑的⼗本书 (Beijing University Press; first edition, November 1, 2017/
released 2021).
JJaannuuaarryy 22002211
11 of 16 3/23/26, 4:17 PM

--- Page 12 of 15 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/art-history/notable-faculty-student-achi...
Associate Professor of Art History Allison Miller gave a lecture titled “Purple in Early China”
to an art history class at Georgetown University on January 17, 2021.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Professor of Art and Art History Thomas Noble Howe was one of the few authors to
contribute two chapters—“Hellenistic” and “Christian Roman Empire”—to the book Sir
Banister Fletcher’s Global History of Architecture (21st edition, Bloomsbury, 2020), which
has just been awarded the prestigious Colvin Prize for 2020 by the Society of Architectural
Historians of Great Britain.
Professor of Art and Art History Thomas Noble Howe contributed four drawings and a
short chapter in the recently published book The Artemis Temple at Sardis, by Fikret Yegül
(Harvard University Press, 2020). Yegül arrived independently at the same conclusion about
the chronology proposed circa 1985 by Howe.
Associate Professor of Art History Allison Miller was invited to put her book Kingly
Splendor: Court Art and Materiality in Han China to the Page 99 Test. The Page 99 Testis a
blog edited by American screenwriter Marshal Zeringue that asks authors to test their books
and analyze the content based on the following idea expressed by Ford Madox Ford: “Open
the book to page 99 and read, and the quality of the whole will be revealed to you.” You can
read Miller’s January 2nd entry here.
12 of 16 3/23/26, 4:17 PM

--- Page 13 of 15 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/art-history/notable-faculty-student-achi...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
DDeecceemmbbeerr 22002200
Professor of Art History Kimberly Smith gave a talk in December 2020 titled “Modeling and
Modernism: Charlotte Berend-Corinth’s Work” at the virtually held annual Southeastern
College Art Conference (SECAC) hosted by Virginia Commonwealth University School of the
Arts.
Associate Professor of Art History Allison Miller ’s book Kingly Splendor: Court Art and
Materiality in Han China was published by Columbia University Press.
NNoovveemmbbeerr 22002200
Associate Professor of Art History Allison Miller ’s book Kingly Splendor: Court Art and
Materiality in Han China was published by Columbia University Press.
13 of 16 3/23/26, 4:17 PM

--- Page 14 of 15 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/art-history/notable-faculty-student-achi...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
JJuullyy 22002200
Associate Professor of Art History Allison Miller discussed her forthcoming book, Kingly
Splendor: Court Art and Materiality in Han China, on a panel titled “The Problem of Objects
and Material Culture” at the (virtual) conference, Envisioning East Asian Art History: 20
Books in 2020, hosted by the Society for the Promotion of International English-Language
Scholarship on East Asian Art History on July 31. A recording of the conference and other
information about the featured books can be found here.
JJaannuuaarryy 22002200
Professor of Art and Art History Thomas Howe recently published two invitational drawings
in the celebration of the Tribunal de Contas de Portugal (the Portuguese Court of Auditors)
at the 630th anniversary of its first Regulations. The publication is titled “O Número : A
Emblemática Tapeçaria que Almada Negreiros Concebeu para o Tribunal de Contas ” (“ The
Number: The Iconic Tapestry Designed by Almada Negreiros for the Tribunal de Contas”),
published in Portuguese. The drawings are from Howe’s publication with Ingrid Rowland,
Vitruvius: The Ten Books on Architecture (Cambridge University Press, 1999)—illustrations
of the supposedly innate proportions of the Vitruvian “human.” The illustrations are a
variation of the famous drawing by Leonardo da Vinci but show the ideal human as half
male, half female—the first ever revision of the famous image of Leonardo’s male figure,
based on the actual meaning of the term humanus , which is not gender specific in Latin.
14 of 16 3/23/26, 4:17 PM

--- Page 15 of 15 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/art-history/notable-faculty-student-achi...
The illustrations also appeared in a Portuguese translation of Vitruvius.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Associate Professor of Art History Allison Miller gave an invited lecture titled “Terracotta
Warriors after the First Emperor: Re-Evaluating the Qin Legacy in the Han” on January 17,
2020, at the University of Central Florida in Orlando. The talk was the last of three talks
Miller gave this academic year as a 2019–2020 Archaeological Institute of America (AIA)
program lecturer.
Professor of Art History Thomas Noble Howe has just published two invitational book
chapters, “Hellenistic Architecture” (17,000 words) and “The Christian Roman Empire, A.D.
306–c. A.D. 500” (11,000 words), in the 21st edition of Sir Banister Fletcher’s A History of
Architecture (commissioned by the Royal Institute of British Architects and the University of
London; published by, Bloomsbury Press, pp. 284–331 and409–436). The Banister
Fletcher is the oldest and arguably most prestigious repeatedly reedited history of
architecture, first published in 1893. Howe has been invited to attend the presentation at
the Royal Institute of British Architects and Bloomsbury Press in London on January 28.
Both chapters are the only currently available one-volume histories of either period of
architectural history.
15 of 16 3/23/26, 4:17 PM