--- Page 1 of 4 ---

See What Our Graduates Are Doing Nowabout:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.southwestern.edu%2Fart-his...
southwestern.edu
See What Our Graduates Are Doing
Now
6–8 minutes
Very often the most important career choice a student will make is
yet ahead: the shift in field from what they took as an
undergraduate to what they will take in graduate school or in their
choice of careers.
Students in art history find that their training in research,
writing, broad historical knowledge and analyzing visual
thinking serves them well for a wide variety of fields, such as
gallery, museum, consulting, individual entrepreneurship in design
related businesses. Careers in gallery or museum work usually
require a major and an M.A. and Ph.D. in art history. Art history
majors actually have a higher rate of acceptance to medical and
law schools than pre-med and pre-law majors as it equips them for
innovative thinking and effective cross-cultural communication. A
minor in art history and a major in any other humanistic discipline,
such as history, language, literature, English, philosophy, religion,
etc. is also an effective preparation for application to a masters or
Ph.D. programs in art history.
Notable Alumni
1 of 4 3/23/26, 4:17 PM

--- Page 2 of 4 ---

See What Our Graduates Are Doing Nowabout:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.southwestern.edu%2Fart-his...
Elizabeth Schlatter, ’93, earned her M.A. in Art History from
George Washington University. She is Deputy Director and Curator
of Exhibitions at the University of Richmond Museums, Virginia.
Kris Ercums, ’93, received his M.A. in the History of Art from the
University of Chicago. He is currently Curator of Global
Contemporary & Asian Art at the Spencer Museum of Art,
University of Kansas in Lawrence, Kansas.
Mary Fuller, ’00, received her M.A. in Arts Administration from
Boston University in 2002. She is Chief Operating Officer of San
Francisco’s Hack the Hood, which addresses digital equity by
training low-income kids to build websites for local small
businesses. Hack the Hood won $500,000 in the 2014 Google Bay
Area Impact Challenge.
Jocelyn Widmer, ’03, holds a Masters in Public Health and a PhD
in Urban and Regional Planning with a concentration in
international development (University of Florida), in addition to a
Masters in Landscape Architecture (Texas A&M). She is currently
Program Director of the Online Degree Program, Department of
Urban & Regional Planning, University of Florida.
Josh Franco, ’06, earned his M.A. in Philosophy, Interpretation, &
Culture from Binghamton University, SUNY in 2010, and his Ph.D.
in the Art History Department at Binghamton in 2016. He is
currently the Latino Collections Curator at the Smithsonian
Archives of American Art.
Arbye Curtis, ’06, is Director of Client Relations at Employer
Direct Healthcare in Chicago. From 2010-15, he was Senior
National Account Executive at Cigna Healthcare
Anna Nau, ’06, earned her M.A. in Architectural History from the
2 of 4 3/23/26, 4:17 PM

--- Page 3 of 4 ---

See What Our Graduates Are Doing Nowabout:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.southwestern.edu%2Fart-his...
University of Virginia (2009), and M.Sc., Architectural Conservation
from Edinburgh College of Art (2011). She works as Architectural
Conservator for Ford Powell and Carson Architects in San
Antonio, TX, and is also in the Ph.D. program in Architecture and
Historic Preservation at the University of Texas, Austin.
Mary (Claire) Angle, ’07, earned her M.A. in Art Education from
the School of the Art Institute of Chicago in 2012. She is currently
Assistant Director of School-Based Learning at the Cincinnati Art
Museum in Ohio.
Genevieve Ellis,’08, completed her Masters of Public Health from
Portland State University in 2014, and is now working in Portland
with the Coalition of Community Health Clinics, managing the
enrollment, quality improvement, emergency preparedness, and
intern programs.
Holly Gordon, ’09, earned her M.A. in Art History at the University
of Richmond, London in 2010, and her Doctor of Law (JD) at the
George Washington University Law School in 2015, specializing in
Copyright, Entertainment, and Art Law. She is currently an
Associate at Guerrieri, Clayman, Bartos & Parcelli law firm in
Washington, DC.
Kelly Johnson, ’12, completed her M.A. in the curatorial graduate
program at the Maryland Institute College of Art’s Curatorial
Practice MFA (CPMFA) program in Baltimore, MD in 2015.
Johnson was awarded the Elizabeth Stafford Hutchinson Endowed
Internship at the National Museum of Women in the Arts, curated
several exhibitions in Baltimore, and is currently the Volunteer and
Program Coordinator at the Rothko Chapel in Houston, Texas.
Megan DiNoia, Dec ’12, was awarded a Curatorial Internship at
3 of 4 3/23/26, 4:17 PM

--- Page 4 of 4 ---

See What Our Graduates Are Doing Nowabout:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.southwestern.edu%2Fart-his...
the Guggenheim Museum, in New York City, and will be entering
the M.A. Program in Art History at New York University in 2016.
Denise Gonzalez, ’13, is Studio and Gallery Programs Assistant
at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston.
Christina Hadly, ’13, is Business Affairs Coordinator at Pereira &
O’Dell Advertising and Marketing Firm, San Franciso.
Elizabeth Kajs, ’13, earned her MLitt in the History of Art from the
University of St. Andrew’s, Scotland, and is currently a Ph.D.
candidate in the History of Art at the University of Bristol, UK.
Morgan Drake, ’15, is currently a JD (Juris Doctor) candidate in
Cultural Heritage & Law, International Law, and Intellectual
Property Law at DePaul University College of Law in Chicago.
4 of 4 3/23/26, 4:17 PM