--- Page 1 of 4 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
MMAATTHH
Courses
The Mathematics curriculum is traditional, although many of the best practices for mathematics classrooms
(technology, group projects, inquiry-based learning, writing mathematics, etc.) are being incorporated where
appropriate to enhance the traditional topics.
The following list of courses represents current or recent course offerings. See the course catalog for updated
information.
5522--006644 MMooddeerrnn QQuuaannttiittaattiivvee MMeetthhooddss
This course focuses on modern quantitative and mathematical techniques, and illustrates ways in which
these methods are used in the real world. Students will develop number sense, improve their visual/
spatial reasoning, and better understand important mathematical functions. An emphasis is placed on
visualizing and graphing functions, manipulating mathematical expressions, and interpreting models.
Topics studied may include linear, polynomial, exponential, logarithmic, and trigonometric functions.
Students who may benefit from additional preparation prior to taking Mathematics 52-164 Modern
Calculus I are encouraged to take this course. See math placement guidelines. Cannot be taken for credit
after completing Mathematics 52-164 Modern Calculus I with at least a C-, or concurrently with
Mathematics 52-164 Modern Calculus I. This course may not be used for the Mathematics or
Computational Mathematics majors or minors. (Fall, Spring) (NS)
5522--110044 EExxpplloorraattiioonnss iinn MMaatthheemmaattiiccss
This course presents the spirit and beauty of mathematics through topics chosen by the instructor,
emphasizing the role that mathematics plays in society. Topics may include mathematics in art and
literature, Euclid's Elements, game theory and voting theory. The mathematical content may include
geometry, algebra, and number systems. The course is suitable for a general audience with a broad
spectrum of backgrounds and abilities and also satisfies requirements for EC-6 or 4-8 teacher
certification. This course may not be used for the Mathematics major or minor. (NS)
5522--111144 IInnttrroodduuccttiioonn ttoo SSttaattiissttiiccss
This course provides students in the social and natural sciences with the skills necessary to perform
elementary statistical analysis. Topics include descriptive measures, sampling theory, Student-T and
normal distributions, estimation and hypothesis testing with p-values, regression and correlation. This
course may not be used for the Mathematics major or minor. Contributes to Data Analytics, Data
Science, and Health Studies. (Fall, Spring) (NS)
5522--116644 MMooddeerrnn CCaallccuulluuss II
This course focuses on introducing calculus with a modeling first approach. Topics include: functions as
models of data, vectors, differential calculus of functions of one and several variables, optimization, and
integration. Applications may be drawn from varied areas, such as biology, chemistry, economics, and

--- Page 2 of 4 ---

physics. Attention is given to both symbolic and numeric computing. This course expects students to have
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
prior exposure to: trigonometry, exponents, logarithms, functions and their graphs. Students who may
benefit from additional preparation prior to taking this course are encouraged to take Mathematics
52-064 Modern Quantitative Methods. Before registration, consult the math placement guidelines on the
registrar's website. (Fall, Spring) (NS)
5522--220044 TTooppiiccss iinn MMaatthheemmaattiiccss
This course investigates a topic in Mathematics that varies according to the interests of the professor.
This course may be repeated with a change in the topic. (NS)
5522--226644 MMooddeerrnn CCaallccuulluuss IIII
This course focuses on calculus useful for both theoretical and applied work in the mathematical, natural,
and social sciences. Topics include: introductory differential equations, sequences and series, Taylor
series, techniques and applications of integration, partial derivatives, multiple integration, and limits.
Attention is given to both symbolic and numerical computing. Prerequisite: Mathematics 52-164. (Fall,
Spring) (NS)
5522--229911 PPuuttnnaamm PPoowweerr HHoouurr
This course is designed to sharpen problem solving abilities. Students will tackle challenging problems
from the William Lowell Putnam Competitions of previous years and study some of the published
solutions. Students enrolled in this course will be encouraged to compete in the Putnam Competition in
early December. This course may be repeated for credit, but may not be counted toward the major or
minor, and must be taken Pass/D/F. Prerequisite: Consent of instructor.
5522--330044 SSeelleecctteedd TTooppiiccss
May be repeated with change in topic. Prerequisite: Permission of instructor.
5522--336644 MMooddeerrnn CCaallccuulluuss IIIIII
This course focuses on calculus useful for the mathematical and physical sciences. Topics include: scalar
and vector-valued functions and derivatives; gradients, contour plots, and constrained and unconstrained
optimization of multiple variables; integration over regions in various coordinate systems;
parameterization and integration over curves, and surfaces; divergence; curl; Green's theorem; and
formal mathematical definitions of the integral, derivative, and limit. Prerequisite: Mathematics 52-264.
(Fall, Spring) (NS)
5522--338844 DDiissccrreettee MMaatthheemmaattiiccss
See Computer Science 54-384. (Fall) (NS)
5522--440044 GGeeoommeettrryy
This course investigates various approaches to geometry. Topics may include synthetic geometry, analytic
geometry, projective geometry, differential geometry, Euclidean geometry and non-Euclidean geometry.
Prerequisite: Permission of instructor. (Fall, odd years) (NS)
5522--441144 OOppeerraattiioonnss RReesseeaarrcchh
See Computer Science 54-414 and Business 30-414. Contributes to Data Analytics and Data Science.
5522--552244 IInnttrroodduuccttiioonn ttoo NNuummeerriiccaall AAnnaallyyssiiss
This course investigates the derivations and applications of numerical techniques. Topics include:
interpolation, approximation, numerical differentiation and integration, zeros of functions and solution of
linear systems. Also Computer Science 54-524. Prerequisites: Mathematics 52-264, 52-674, and

--- Page 3 of 4 ---

Computer Science 54-184, or permission of instructor. (NS)
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
5522--557744 PPrroobbaabbiilliittyy aanndd MMaatthheemmaattiiccaall SSttaattiissttiiccss
This course is a calculus-based, mathematical introduction to the fundamental principles of probability
theory and applications. Topics include combinatorial analysis used in computing probabilities, the axioms
and properties of probability, conditional probability, independence of events, discrete and continuous
random variables, the standard distributions, expected value and variance, joint distributions,
distributions of a function of a random variable, and sampling distributions. Also included are theoretical
results such as Bayes' Theorem, Central Limit Theorem, Law of Large Numbers, the Empirical Rule,
Hypothesis Testing and Confidence intervals at least for a single mean and a single proportion.
Contributes to Data Analytics and Data Science. Prerequisite: Mathematics 52-264. (Spring) (NS)
5522--667744 LLiinneeaarr AAllggeebbrraa
This course is an introduction to the basic structure of proofs, linear equations and matrices, vector
spaces, linear mappings, determinants, eigensystems, orthogonality, matrix decompositions and
applications of linear algebra. Prerequisite: Mathematics 52-264, or permission of instructor. (Fall) (NS)
5522--668844 AAllggeebbrraaiicc SSttrruuccttuurreess
This course investigates the theory of sets, relations, functions, groups and rings. A rigorous approach to
learning and writing proofs is emphasized. Prerequisite: Mathematics 52-674 or permission of instructor.
(Fall) (NS)
5522--775544 DDiiffffeerreennttiiaall EEqquuaattiioonnss
This course investigates the theory and application of differential equations. Topics include both linear
and nonlinear first order ordinary differential equations, numerical solutions, and higher order linear
ordinary differential equations. Solution techniques may include undetermined coefficients, variation of
parameters, power series solutions, and Laplace transforms. Additional topics may be chosen from linear
systems, nonlinear systems and Fourier series analysis of partial differential equations with boundary
conditions. Prerequisite: Mathematics 52-364, or permission of instructor. (Spring) (NS)
5522--883344 CCoommpplleexx AAnnaallyyssiiss
This course investigates functions of a complex variable. Topics include algebra and geometry of complex
numbers, analytic and harmonic functions, mappings, Taylor and Laurent series, and contour integration.
Prerequisite: Mathematics 52-364, or permission of instructor. (Fall, even years) (NS)
5522--884444 SSeemmiinnaarr iinn SSppeecciiaall TTooppiiccss
This course is a limited enrollment seminar in a major area of mathematics not generally covered in other
courses. Topics may include but are not limited to advanced analysis, combinatorics, logic and history of
mathematics. The course may be repeated for credit as topics vary. (NS)
5522--885544 RReeaall AAnnaallyyssiiss
This course investigates the algebra and topology of the real numbers. Topics include completeness,
sequences, limits and continuity, differentiation, the Mean-Value Theorem, Taylors Theorem and infinite
series. May also include sequences and series of functions. A rigorous approach to learning and writing
proofs is emphasized. Prerequisite: Mathematics 52-674, or permission of instructor. (Spring) (NS)
5522--889944 SSeenniioorr SSeemmiinnaarr iinn MMaatthheemmaattiiccss
This course will fulfill the capstone requirement in Mathematics. Since it serves as a culmination of the
student's undergraduate mathematical experience, a balance is sought between application and theory.

--- Page 4 of 4 ---

Topics may vary with the instructor. Applications will be taken from the social and natural sciences.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Collaboration and significant class participation are expected. Each student will take the Major Field Test.
A major semester project resulting in a written paper and an oral presentation is required; an external
presentation may also be required. Prerequisites: Five courses in the major at the 300 level or above,
Computer Science 54-184, and permission of instructor. (Fall) (NS) (WA)
GGEEOORRGGEETTOOWWNN,, TTEEXXAASS
551122..886633..66551111
CCOONNTTAACCTT