--- Page 1 of 4 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
MMAATTHH
Placement Information
Choosing the Right Course
SSoocciiaall aanndd NNaattuurraall SScciieennccee MMaajjoorrss
Most Social and Natural Science majors are required to take Statistics (MAT52-114) and/or Modern Calculus I
(MAT52-164). It is extremely important to consult with your advisor before choosing your mathematics
course.
NNoonn--SScciieennccee MMaajjoorrss
We recommend that non-Science majors take Explorations in Mathematics (MAT52-104), Statistics
(MAT52-114), Modern Calculus I (MAT52-164), Explorations in Computing (54-144), and/or Computer
Science I (CSC54-184).
WWhhaatt iiss tthhee ““MMooddeerrnn CCaallccuulluuss”” sseeqquueennccee??
The Modern Calculus sequence is our replacement for the “traditional” Calculus sequence, and the two differ
in a number of important ways. Modern Calculus emphasizes skills and tools that are used in the modern
world. Technology is used as a tool to illuminate calculus concepts. Additionally, Modern Calculus promotes
multivariable functions and multivariate reasoning throughout the sequence.
Students should note that the traditional order of topics is altered in Modern Calculus. As a result, students
who have previous Calculus experience will still see new material in our Modern Calculus sequence.
MMooddeerrnn CCaallccuulluuss II oorr MMooddeerrnn CCaallccuulluuss IIII??
Students who wish to take Modern Calculus II (MAT52-264) must have a minimum of C- in Modern Calculus I
(MAT52-164) or equivalent. Transfer credit for (traditional) Calculus I allows entry into Modern Calculus II
without consultation. For AP credit, see below.
EExxaamm PPllaacceemmeenntt
An AP score of 4 or 5 on the Calculus AB exam yields credit for Calculus I. A student with this score will be
placed in Modern Calculus 2.
An AP score of 4 or 5 on the Calculus BC exam yields credit for Calculus I and four additional math credits. A
student with this score will be placed in Modern Calculus 2.
Those with AP scores of 3 should consult with a Calculus instructor to aid their placement.
ALEKS Math Knowledge Check

--- Page 2 of 4 ---

WWhhaatt iiss AALLEEKKSS PPPPLL??
ALEMKeSn Purep aSneda Lrceharning Module (PPL) is a program that provides individualized lAepaprnlyingV aisnitd aMssaejosrssm &e nMti.nors
Through individualized learning, you will be able to zero in on your strengths in math, and have the
opportunity to improve your math skills with targeted learning.
WWhhaatt ddooeess mmyy ssccoorree mmeeaann??
The table below provides some guidance based on your Math Knowledge Check Score.
Score Next steps
•
Take Modern Quantitative Methods in
your first year at Southwestern.
0-35
•
Talk to your academic advisor about what
an appropriate course load might include.
•
You are eligible to enroll in Modern
Calculus 1 during or after Sprog Orientation.
•
You must work in the ALEKS PPL Learning
Modules to improve your score up to 70 by
July 31st.
◦
If your score is 70 or above by August
1st and you are currently enrolled in
Modern Calculus 1, you will remain in
the course.
◦
If your score is still between 36-69 on
36-69 August 1st and you are enrolled in
Modern Calculus 1, you will be removed
from Modern Calculus 1.
◦
If space permits, you may be
automatically added to the Modern
Quantitative Methods course. Check
with your academic advisor to discuss
potential next steps.
•
Talk with your academic advisor about
what an appropriate course load might
include.
70-100
•
You are ready for quantitative courses at
Southwestern!
•
You can always return to ALEKS to brush

--- Page 3 of 4 ---

up on topics you may have forgotten as you
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
cover them in your courses.
II hhaavvee ttaakkeenn tthhee AALLEEKKSS PPPPLL MMaatthh KKnnoowwlleeddggee CChheecckk -- nnooww wwhhaatt?? HHooww mmaannyy ttiimmeess ccaann II aatttteemmpptt
AALLEEKKSS?? AArree tthheerree aannyy rruulleess aarroouunndd ssuubbsseeqquueenntt aatttteemmppttss??
Once you are finished with the ALEKS PPL Math Knowledge Check, you will immediately receive your score
and some information about what that score means. Everyone gets 5 total attempts over a one-year period.
The ALEKS system settings (rules) behind subsequent attempts are as follows:
•
You must wait 48 hours between each attempt, and…
•
You must work for 3 additional hours in ALEKS before the second attempt will be available.
•
You must work for 5 additional hours in ALEKS before the third, fourth, or last attempt will be
available.
DDoo II nneeeedd ttoo ttaakkee tthhee AALLEEKKSS PPllaacceemmeenntt TTeesstt iiff II rreecceennttllyy ttooookk tthhee AAPP CCaallccuulluuss eexxaamm??
If you recently took the AP Calculus AB or Calculus BC exam in the most recent Spring semester, you will not
have your scores until July, which is after the Sprog Orientation. In this scenario, YYEESS, you must still take the
ALEKS Placement Test. If Southwestern has received an earlier score of 4 or 5 on the AP Calculus AB or
Calculus BC exams, then no, you do not need to take the ALEKS Placement Test.
AArree tthheerree aannyy eexxcceeppttiioonnss ttoo ttaakkiinngg tthhee AALLEEKKSS PPllaacceemmeenntt TTeesstt??
It is only possible to be exempted from taking ALEKS if SU has received 1) transfer credit for Calculus I, or 2)
a score of 4 or 5 on the AP Calculus AB or BC exam. Students will be required to take ALEKS if Southwestern
has not received the transfer credit or AP exam scores.
DDoo II nneeeedd ttoo ttaakkee tthhee AALLEEKKSS PPllaacceemmeenntt TTeesstt iiff II rreecceennttllyy ttooookk tthhee AALLEEKKSS PPllaacceemmeenntt TTeesstt aatt aa ddiiffffeerreenntt
sscchhooooll??
MAYBE NOT. If you recently took the ALEKS Placement Test at a different school, you might not have to take
it again. This depends on whether the school you came from is set up to send your ALEKS scores. First, you
must create your Southwestern ALEKS account. Next, you must work with Dr. Tran at
tranw@southwestern.edu to see if you can transfer your test scores from your previous school to your
Southwestern ALEKS account.
If your previous school allows for the score transfer, you do not need to take the ALEKS Math Placement
Test. If your previous school does not allow the score transfer, you must take the ALEKS Math Placement test
on your Southwestern ALEKS account.
WWhhaatt iiff II’’mm nnoott aann iinnccoommiinngg ssttuuddeenntt bbuutt ppllaann ttoo ttaakkee MMooddeerrnn CCaallccuulluuss II?? DDoo II ssttiillll nneeeedd ttoo ttaakkee AALLEEKKSS??
WWhhaatt iiff II nneeeedd tthhee ssuuppppoorrtt ffrroomm AALLEEKKSS——iiss tthheerree ssttiillll aa wwaayy ffoorr mmee ttoo eennrroollll??
If you are not a Fall 2025 incoming student, you do not have to have an ALEKS score of 70 to enroll in
Modern Calculus I. However, if you are nervous about your background or want additional support you can
reach out to Dr. Will Tran (email) to learn about potential options.
WWhhyy sshhoouulldd II ttaakkee MMooddeerrnn CCaallccuulluuss II aatt SSoouutthhwweesstteerrnn aanndd nnoott aatt aa ccoommmmuunniittyy ccoolllleeggee??
At SU we have a lower required ALEKS score (70) than many local community colleges. For example, Austin
Community College requires an ALEKS score of 80 to enter their Calculus I course and a 65 to enter Pre-
Calculus and all testing attempts (up to 5) must be done in person at a testing center.
WWhhyy sshhoouulldd II ttrryy mmyy bbeesstt oonn tthhee AALLEEKKSS MMaatthh KKnnoowwlleeddggee CChheecckk??

--- Page 4 of 4 ---

It is important that you take the Math Knowledge Check seriously to avoid unnecessary work. You will receive
recoMmemnuendatiSoenasr cfhrom your instructor and academic advisor based on your scoreA. pIfp lyyouV riesciteivMea ajo srsc o&r eM tihnoarts
is lower than your true knowledge or abilities, you may be asked to do additional work or attend additional
meetings. Some instructors may require you to work towards a particular score as part of your class.
WWhhaatt iiss SSoouutthhwweesstteerrnn’’ss hhoonnoorr ccooddee??
Southwestern’s Honor Pledge: “I have acted with honesty and integrity in producing this work and am unaware
of anyone who has not.”
You may not use outside resources (textbooks, friends, family, search engines, online equation solvers,
calculators etc.) while taking the ALEKS PPL Math Knowledge Check. Using an unauthorized resource or
cheating on the ALEKS PPL is a violation of the’s Honor Code and may result in
disciplinary action. There is no benefit to cheating on the ALEKS PPL Math Knowledge Check – the goal is to
ensure adequate preparation for your math and/or chemistry courses which can lead to success in these and
future courses.
WWhhoo wwiillll bbee mmyy ccoonnttaacctt ppeerrssoonn oonnccee II hhaavvee ccoommpplleetteedd tthhee AALLEEKKSS PPPPLL MMaatthh KKnnoowwlleeddggee CChheecckk??
Your contact person will be Dr. Will Lopez Tran. You may receive email communication from Dr. Tran
regarding ALEKS. If you have any questions after completing the ALEKS PPL Math Knowledge Check, you
may email Dr. Tran at tranw@southwestern.edu
WWhhaatt iiff II hhaavvee pprroobblleemmss wwiitthh tthhee ssooffttwwaarree wwhhiillee II aamm uussiinngg iitt oonnlliinnee??
Please do not write to faculty or technical support people at Southwestern with ALEKS questions. ALEKS
provides excellent support for their software. See http://support.aleks.com .
GGEEOORRGGEETTOOWWNN,, TTEEXXAASS
551122..886633..66551111
CCOONNTTAACCTT