--- Page 1 of 8 ---

Courseshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/courses/
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
CCOOMMMMUUNNIICCAATTIIOONN SSTTUUDDIIEESS
Courses
The departmental curriculum is organized around two cognate areas that represent the two
distinct, yet interrelated, areas of focus in the major: Rhetorical Studies and Critical Media
Studies.
Each of these two areas is represented by one of the two COM Core Courses (75-204 and 604)
as well as a group of courses that represent further interventions into the cognate areas.
Rhetorical Studies Courses are located in the 75-200s and 75-300s (with the exception of
75-304, the general COM Special Topics course number). Critical Media Studies Courses are
located in the 75-600s and 75-700s. Many students take an Academic Internship as one of their
upper-level Communication Studies elective courses. Special Topics courses (75-004 and
75-304) and Independent Studies (75-95x) are also available.
Below you will find a list of our current or recent offerings. See the course catalog for
descriptions and updated information.
7755--113344 CCrriittiiccaall//CCuullttuurraall CCoommmmuunniiccaattiioonn SSttuuddiieess
This course introduces theoretical and critical perspectives central to the two cognate areas
of the major: Rhetorical Studies and Critical Media Studies. A special focus on qualitative
critical/interpretive research methods and theoretical frameworks enhances students'
understanding of the role that communication plays in the construction and negotiation of
culture and identity. This introductory class is required for both the major and minor in
Communication Studies. (Fall, Spring) (H)
7755--115544 PPuubblliicc SSppeeaakkiinngg
This course does not count towards the Communication Studies major or minor but could
be taken as an elective. This course emphasizes speaking in public from a narrative
1 of 8 3/24/26, 4:32 PM

--- Page 2 of 8 ---

Courseshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/courses/
paradigm. The guiding assumption will be that every public speech act implies a story, and
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
that every image (metaphor, picture, nonverbal embodied communication form) concretizes
and is explained by a narrative. Students will learn to be more reflexive, strategic, and
skillful as public communicators by creating and performing several speeches that
foreground the creation of a public self (ethos) created by articulating a relationship
between self and audience through the use of narrative and image. Contributes to Legal
Studies Certificate. (Fall, Spring)
7755--220044 RRhheettoorriiccaall TThheeoorryy
This class examines a range of rhetorical theories that are used as critical perspectives in
conducting rhetorical analyses. The course begins with the classical rhetorical theories
founded in Ancient Greece, and then concentrates on contemporary rhetorical theory.
Outcome goals include demonstrating how different theories can be applied to rhetorical
texts and the kind of insights that different theories can yield. This class is required for the
major. Contributes to Legal Studies Certificate. Prerequisites: Communication Studies
75-134. (Spring) (H)
7755--223344 RRhheettoorriiccss ooff RReessiissttaannccee
This course examines the ways in which rhetoric is used for social protest. It emphasizes
historical and cultural contexts as it looks at how social movements use diverse rhetorical
strategies to promote social justice. Contributes to Race and Ethnicity Studies/Allied
Course. (H) (SJ) (PJ)
7755--224444 RRhheettoorriicc ooff BBrreeaatthhiinngg
This course emphasizes a structural-rhetorical attention to breathing to situate the
experiential struggles of the state's most vulnerable groups as ongoing questions of
accessible U.S. citizenship rights. The course contemplates a survey of contemporary civic
asphyxiations across U.S. civic life such as Black Lives Matter social movement,
reproductive rights, indigenous rights, disability rights, environmental racism, COVID-19,
antisemitism, anti-Muslim hate, U.S. higher education and anti-LGBTQIA2S+/anti-black
legislation, immigration and the U.S. borders. (H)
7755--225544 UUnnddeerrssttaannddiinngg PPoowweerr iinn CCuullttuurree
2 of 8 3/24/26, 4:32 PM

--- Page 3 of 8 ---

Courseshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/courses/
In this course, we examine our sensory habits of everyday life to glean and discern the
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
granular grammar of power in local and transnational milieus of lived experiences. The
inter-disciplinary vocabularies for the course bear critical materialist, feminist, and queer
phenomenological orientations. Based on these discerning compasses, the course examines
our sensory entanglements with everyday lattices of power vis-à-vis everyday objects and
spaces becoming materialized in our everyday communicative habits and patterns.
Contributes to Feminist Studies. (H)
7755--226644 FFeemmiinniisstt RRhheettoorriicc
The last 200 years have been a time of incredible change for women in the United States.
This course examines the rhetoric that fosters and reflects this kind of social change,
ranging from the women's suffrage movement, to the women's movements of the 60s and
70s, to contemporary feminism. Contributes to Feminist Studies. (H) (SJ)(PJ)
7755--228844 TThhee RRhheettoorriicc ooff SSuurrvveeiillllaannccee
This class examines surveillance discourse and how it targets particular bodies. It will
explore how security discourse emerges at the intersections of race, gender and class to
maintain structures of power that sustain national and economic interests. The course also
addresses how we might resist or ethically reclaim surveillance. Contributes to Feminist
Studies, and Race and Ethnicity Studies/Allied Course. (H) (SJ)(PJ)
7755--440044 CCoommmmuunniiccaattiinngg LLeeaaddeerrsshhiipp
This course examines current scholarship about how leadership is created and
communicated in organizations and other aspects of our lives. Students will demonstrate an
understanding of leadership, leadership styles, and the communication strategies of
leadership. Discussion, reflective writing, critical thinking, and engagement will be used to
assess these goals. Contributes to Business and Environmental Studies. (H)
7755--441133 TTrraavveell,, TToouurriissmm,, aanndd CCoommmmuunniiccaattiioonn
Explores different rhetorical perspectives to explore the business, cultural influence,
colonial roots, and environmental impact of travel and tourism. Students research and
encounter tourist destinations, as well as places of public memory, to experience how
places are constituted through communication. We compare different tourist destinations
3 of 8 3/24/26, 4:32 PM

--- Page 4 of 8 ---

Courseshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/courses/
and places of public memory using the rhetoric of the site, visitor reactions, travel guides,
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
programs, and web sites, as well as spatial and supporting elements of the site itself.
Offered during SU Summer Study Abroad program. Contributes to Business and
Environmental Studies. (H)
7755--442244 LLaattiinnaa//oo//xx CCoommmmuunniiccaattiioonn SSttuuddiieess
This course explores relationships among culture, identity, and communication in Latin/x
America. Specifically, it examines the ways in which communication scholars have studied
the rhetorical, performative, and mediated dimensions of Latinidad, mestizaje, and
citizenship vis-à-vis intersecting colonial systems of race, class, gender, and sexuality.
Special attention will be given to both the ways in which discourses of coloniality shape
contemporary issues affecting identity, culture, and communication in Latin/x America, as
well as to the critical efforts to decolonize intellectual and cultural practices in our
communities. Contributes to Latin American and Border Studies, and Race and Ethnicity
Studies/Group-Theme Course. (H)
7755--444444 CCoommmmuunniiccaattiioonn aanndd MMeemmoorryy
This course examines the role of communication in producing, representing, reinforcing,
and contesting individual and collective memory at a variety of scales: within individuals as
well as in between individuals in interpersonal relationships, families, communities, nations,
cultures, and across cultures. The main focus is on learning the central critical theory and
methodologies used in the analysis and interpretation of acts, practices, texts, objects, and
spaces engaged in communicating individual and collective memory. (H) (SJ)(PJ)
7755--445544 RRaaccee,, EEtthhnniicciittyy,, aanndd CCoommmmuunniiccaattiioonn
This course introduces critical race theory as it applies to the study of communication. In
particular, it explores the intersection of race/ethnicity, communication and media as it
relates to issues of social justice and identity in America. These explorations shed light on
the historical formation of racial and ethnic identities and their current social and personal
relevance. The course integrates questions of identity with those of justice, economics and
law, and will require a strong commitment to tolerance and self-reflection. Contributes to
Race and Ethnicity Studies/Concepts Course. (H) (SJ)(PJ)
4 of 8 3/24/26, 4:32 PM

--- Page 5 of 8 ---

Courseshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/courses/
7755--446644 EEnnvviirroonnmmeennttaall CCoommmmuunniiccaattiioonn
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
This course explores various environmental philosophies as they relate to communication
contexts in the public sphere, including journalism, sustainability, consumerism, politics,
environmental organizations, and ecotourism. We will also examine how environmental
theories and policies play out in local, national, and international arenas. Contributes to
Environmental Studies. (H)
7755--447744 VViissuuaall//MMaatteerriiaall CCoommmmuunniiccaattiioonn
This course introduces students to theories and methodologies in visual culture and material
culture studies that focus on the affective and performative dimensions of everyday visual
and material communication, particularly the ways that material objects, images, and
spaces function as communicative media that not only represent things but also do things
and make things happen. Contributes to Design Thinking. (H)
7755--555544 OOrrggaanniizzaattiioonnaall CCoommmmuunniiccaattiioonn
This radically collaborative course takes a high-impact, inquiry-based approach to studying
organizational communication, a field that investigates the interpersonal, group, and
mediated communication patterns and processes within and among a wide variety of
organizations. The course centers on a field-based case study of how internal and external
communications work within a particular organization. Readings and discussions before,
during, and after the field study focus on learning dominant general organizational
communication theories as well as developing the critical skills of collaborative research and
writing necessary for performing the intensive field research. (H)
7755--556644 GGeennddeerr aanndd CCoommmmuunniiccaattiioonn
This course critically explores the process of becoming gendered in contemporary culture.
Drawing from a body of contemporary research and theories, including feminist, critical/
cultural, queer, and psychoanalytic approaches, students will endeavor to discover the ways
in which people communicate within a gendered culture. Contexts include interpersonal
relationships, families, organizations, institutions, and mediated communication.
Contributes to Feminist Studies. (H) (SJ)(PJ)
7755--559944 PPuubblliicc SSppeeaakkiinngg
5 of 8 3/24/26, 4:32 PM

--- Page 6 of 8 ---

Courseshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/courses/
This course emphasizes speaking in public from a narrative paradigm. The guiding
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
assumption will be that every public speech act implies a story, and that every image
(metaphor, picture, nonverbal embodied communication form) concretizes and is explained
by a narrative. Students will learn to be more reflexive, strategic, and skillful as public
communicators by creating and performing several speeches that foreground the creation
of a public self (ethos) created by articulating a relationship between self and audience
through the use of narrative and image. (Fall, Spring)
7755--660044 CCrriittiiccaall MMeeddiiaa TThheeoorryy
This course examines the diverse functions that media serve in the performance of
individual, social, national, and transnational cultures and identities. Students will analyze
how the interdependent relations among media production, media texts, and media
audiences are embedded in cultural discourses and dynamics of ideology, power, and
agency, and will develop an ability to use theories and methodologies prevalent in cultural
studies and critical media studies to research, analyze, interpret, and build effective
arguments about the interrelationships between media and culture. This class is required
for the major. Prerequisites: Communication Studies 75-134. (Fall) (H)
7755--662244 JJoouurrnnaalliissmm
This writing-intensive course considers the character, purposes and subject matter of
documentary nonfiction narrative, with a special emphasis on the processes of writing,
critiquing and revising student-produced feature articles for newspapers and magazines. (H)
7755--663344 MMoonnsstteerrss iinn PPooppuullaarr CCuullttuurree
This class analyzes ontological, psychoanalytical, and symbolic expressions of monstrosity
in various media texts, especially as they relate to race, colonialism, immigration, class,
gender and sexuality, and labor and capitalism. Specifically, we will explore what the figure
of the monster, be it zombies, werewolves, mass shooters, or vampires, can tell us about
the cultural context and the cultural norms in which it emerges. The investigation of these
varied iterations of monstrosity offers students unique opportunities to engage with and
challenge popular culture in critical and meaningful ways. (H)
7755--665544 MMuusslliimmss iinn tthhee MMeeddiiaa
6 of 8 3/24/26, 4:32 PM

--- Page 7 of 8 ---

Courseshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/courses/
This class examines the representations of Muslims in Western media. This includes
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
exploring how popular discourse constructs Muslims, and how Muslims themselves
participate in media discourse. This class also emphasizes identifying how the rhetorical
strategies used to marginalize Muslims overlap with the strategies used to diminish other
groups in the United States, thus establishing how power reproduces itself. Contributes to
Feminist Studies, and Race and Ethnicity Studies/Group-Theme Course. (H) (SJ)(PJ)
7755--667744 FFiillmm SSttuuddiieess
This course introduces students to critical, analytical and theoretical approaches to the
study of film. To explore the complex role that cinema has played in American mass society
since the early 20th century, special emphasis is placed on the study of institutional
practices at all levels of the production, distribution and exhibition of films as well as the
ways of seeing and the ways of doing that guide both filmmakers and audiences who use
film as a communication medium. Contributes to Design Thinking. (H)
7755--668844 RRooaadd MMoovviieess
This course explores the road movie as a contemporary film genre but also a site of cultural
work where representations, histories, futures, identities, bodies and ideas converge and
collide. The course unfolds chronologically, situating case study films within their
historically specific cultural discourses while over time also developing a detailed analysis of
the development of the road movie as a genre and cultural form. (H)
7755--880044 CCrriittiiccaall//CCuullttuurraall RReesseeaarrcchh MMeetthhooddss
This writing intensive course explores some of the critical methods used to analyze diverse
forms of communication. As a collaborative community of scholars, students will conduct
an analysis using critical/cultural methods. Students will demonstrate proficiency in all of
the basic practices required for communication studies research in preparation for
Capstone. This class is required for the major. Prerequisites: Communication Studies
75-134, 75-204, and 75-604. (Fall, Spring) (H) (WA)
7755--996644 CCaappssttoonnee RReesseeaarrcchh SSeemmiinnaarr
This course requires students to integrate and extend work done throughout the
Communication Studies major by producing a significant, original research project that is
7 of 8 3/24/26, 4:32 PM

--- Page 8 of 8 ---

Courseshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/courses/
situated both within Communication Studies as a discipline and within the two cognate areas
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
of the major: Rhetorical Studies, and Critical Media Studies. Topics and instructors vary.
This class is required for the major, and Capstone applications must be submitted in the
spring prior to the capstone year. Prerequisites: Communication Studies 75-134, 75-204,
75-604, and 75-804. (Fall, Spring) (WA)
GGEEOORRGGEETTOOWWNN,, TTEEXXAASS
551122..886633..66551111
CCOONNTTAACCTT
8 of 8 3/24/26, 4:32 PM