--- Page 1 of 40 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/notable-faculty-s...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
CCOOMMMMUUNNIICCAATTIIOONN SSTTUUDDIIEESS
Notable Faculty & Student Achievements
MMaarrcchh 22002266
Southwestern was well represented at the Western States Communication Association
annual conference in San Diego from February 27–March 2. Two students from Professor of
Communication Studies Bob Bednar’s fall capstone class presented research at the
Undergraduate Scholars Research Conference. Chloe London Jordan ’26 presented her
capstone paper “Return to Whiteness: How ‘Return to the Land’ Platforms White
Supremacy” and John Reese ’26 presented “Deconstructing Far-Right Rhetoric on X: A
Case Study of the X Account End Wokeness.” Professor of Communication Studies Valerie
Renegar was there to clap and cheer before presenting her work with Dr. Kirsti Cole from
North Carolina State University titled “The Weight of Stigma” about GLP-1 discourse.
JJaannuuaarryy 22002266
Professor of Communication Studies Bob Bednar was featured as an interview source in a
set of recent news stories produced by News 6 in Tulsa, OK, as part of their Roadside
Memorial Project. The project, directed by News 6 reporter Katie Eastman, is comprised of
several stories originally broadcast between December 22–26, 2025, including a
1 of 40 3/24/26, 4:33 PM

--- Page 2 of 40 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/notable-faculty-s...
documentary-style story about roadside memorials titled “Love on the Side of the Road,”
and a separate news profile of Bednar as a researcher of roadside shrines and collective
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
trauma. The written stories and videos are available here.
NNoovveemmbbeerr 22002255
Associate Professor of Communication Studies Lamiyah Bahrainwala (LB) published the
article “Muscular Anti-Muslim Sentiment” in the journal Women’s Studies in Communication.
The article examines the overlaps between muscular Hinduism and muscular Zionism and
how they function together transnationally. You can read more here.
Professor of Communication Studies Bob Bednar presented an invited lecture titled
“Remembering Jessie Daniel Ames: A Legacy of Social Activism Connecting Southwestern
and Georgetown,” as part of the Preservation Georgetown Lecture Series, on October 15.
2 of 40 3/24/26, 4:33 PM

--- Page 3 of 40 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/notable-faculty-s...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
SSeepptteemmbbeerr 22002255
Associate Professor of Communication Studies Lamiyah Bahrainwala (LB) delivered a
virtual invited talk titled “The Role of the Critic” to graduate students at Arizona State
University. The graduate students were dope and gave LB hope.
AApprriill 22002255
Herman Brown Chair and Professor of Communication Studies Valerie Renegar returned to
Postira, Croatia last week for the 7th Days of Ivo Škarić rhetoric conference. She presented
a paper titled “The Weight of Stigma,” co-authored with Kirsti Cole of North Carolina State
University. This international conference featured rhetorical scholars from 10 countries
across three continents.
Assistant Professor of Communication Studies Raquel Moreira coauthored the forum essay,
“Centering Latin America: gender politics, attacks on higher education, and lessons of
resistance from Brazil,” with Dr. Raiana Carvalho of Furman University. The piece, published
in the National Communication Association’s journal Communication Education, argues that
by centering Latin America, and Brazil in particular, we hope to disrupt the hegemonic
narrative that foregrounds the United States as the primary spreader of anti-higher
education conservative ideologies. Instead, we offer evidence that these far–right attacks
are transnational in nature, and that Latin America is at the center of both the articulation of
3 of 40 3/24/26, 4:33 PM

--- Page 4 of 40 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/notable-faculty-s...
such conservative ideas as well as of the organized resistance to such ideologies. The
essay can be found here.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Associate Professor of Communication Studies Lamiyah Bahrainwala (LB) published the
article “Caste-Attentiveness” in the Quarterly Journal of Speech, the #1 ranked journal in
communication studies. In this article, LB refuses caste as an “India-specific” problem and
places it alongside anti-indigeneity, anti-Blackness, and settler colonialism as a global
system demanding unrelenting critical attention. Read more here.
4 of 40 3/24/26, 4:33 PM

--- Page 5 of 40 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/notable-faculty-s...
Associate Professor of Communication Studies Lamiyah Bahrainwala steered several
student projects that were accepted, presented, and recognized at a highly selective
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
regional conference. Three Southwestern students traveled to Albuquerque, NM, to present
their research at the 2025 Undergraduate Scholars Research Conference hosted by the
Western States Communication Association. This marks the fourth conference Dr.
Bahrainwala has mentored her students through. Faculty reviewers and the conference chair
commended the students afterwards and attempted to recruit them to their graduate
programs. Mia Santoscoy ’26 presented her paper “The Dehumanization of Palestinians in
U.S. Media: Animal rhetoric through death tolls, Instagram infographics, CNN, and X.” Mia
also received a standing ovation from the faculty speakers at the Palestine Solidarity day-
long workshop on February 14. Vanessa Villarreal ’25 presented her paper “Mean Girl
Feminism: Latina Narratives, TikTok, and the Fight Against Misogyny.” Elisabeth Barlin ’25
presented her paper “Sexy, Cute, and Popular to Boot: The Satirizing of Cheerleading
within Bring It On.” Congratulations to these outstanding students.
FFeebbrruuaarryy 22002255
Associate Professor of Communication Studies Lamiyah Bahrainwala (LB) has secured a
donation of two dozen volumes by Dr. Bhimrao Ambedkar from the Ambedkarite Buddhist
Association of Texas (ABAT). Dr. Ambedkar is one of the world’s most important
contemporary thinkers, and authored the Constitution of India, the world’s largest
democracy. He is also a leading anti-caste and Black-solidarity activist who has
collaborated with W.E.B. DuBois to explore the overlapping injustices against Black and Dalit
individuals. Metadata and Discovery Librarian Hong Yu and Director of the A. Frank Smith,
Jr. Library Center Casey Duncan processed and catalogued the materials for the Library
Center. In honor of Black History Month and this important donation, please join us for a
special panel and refreshments in the Periodicals Room in the Library (the “First Thursdays”
room) on Thursday, February 20, from 1:00 – 2:30 p.m. The panelists include Ambedkarite
scholars from UT Austin, and members from ABAT who will contextualize the donation.
5 of 40 3/24/26, 4:33 PM

--- Page 6 of 40 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/notable-faculty-s...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
JJaannuuaarryy 22002255
On January 9, the Mission-Driven Medicine website was launched. The website is the
culmination of a project carried out by the Summer 2024 Organizational Communication
class taught by Professor of Communication Studies Bob Bednar, and features the work
of Lauren Chisholm ’24, Alexa Delenela’25, Tre Flores ’26, Lauren Wise ’25, and Justin
Zamora ’24. The website is a fieldwork-based public-facing humanities project analyzing
the organizational communication at the Houston Methodist Hospital system.
Professor of Communication Studies Valerie Renegar published “Third-Wave Feminist
Rhetoric in the 21st Century: Rethinking Limitations, Possibilities, and New Directions” with
her frequent co-author Stacey Sowards. The chapter appears in The Routledge Handbook
of Contemporary Feminist Rhetoric, edited by Jaqueline Rhodes and Suban Nur Cooley. The
chapter is a retrospective of the 20 years since the duo began writing on this topic. They
argue that the fierce independence of Third Wave feminism taught women to speak out and
believe in their own power, but with little understanding of how to organize or create lasting
legal or political change. Sigh. More information on the volume can be found here.
Associate Professor of Communication Studies Lamiyah Bahrainwala published the
chapter “The discursive eviction of Muslim women” in The Routledge Handbook of
Contemporary Feminist Rhetoric, edited by Jacqueline Rhodes and Suban Nur Cooley. The
6 of 40 3/24/26, 4:33 PM

--- Page 7 of 40 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/notable-faculty-s...
chapter examines how anti-Muslim logics are at the heart of menstrual discourse, COVID-19
measures, and even “Muslim-solidarity” movements. Sad! More information about the book
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
can be found here.
DDeecceemmbbeerr 22002244
Associate Professor of Communication Studies Lamiyah Bahrainwala (LB) attended the
2024 National Communication Association (NCA) conference in New Orleans, LA. She
fulfilled her responsibilities as incoming Chair of the Feminist & Gender Studies Division.
She also received a Distinguished Scholarship Award from the Critical/Cultural Studies
Division for her co-authored article “De-whitening consent amidst COVID-19 rhetoric,”
published with Dr. Kate Lockwood Harris in the Quarterly Journal of Speech. While at NCA,
LB caught up with SU alumna Sofia Salmeron, who is pursuing an M.A. in Communication
Studies at Texas Christian University. Sofia presented her paper “You’re not working hard
enough…you’re not trying hard enough: An analysis of privacy management and coping and
resilience among your adults experiencing food insecurity.” Congratulations to this
outstanding alumna.
Assistant Professor of Communication Studies Raquel Moreira engaged in the following
activities during the 2024 National Communication Association (NCA) annual convention
held in New Orleans on November 20–24: Presented the co-authored paper “Invoking
Ethnic Identity in the Service of Right-Wing Rhetoric: A Rhetorical Analysis of 2022 GOP
Latina Candidates in South Texas” in a session sponsored by the Latina/o Communication
Studies Division; Participated in NCA’s Scholars’ Office Hours, a session in which a select
7 of 40 3/24/26, 4:33 PM

--- Page 8 of 40 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/notable-faculty-s...
group of invited scholars share time with graduate students seeking mentorship;
Responded to the paper session “¡Presente!: Latinx Voices in Decoding Popular Culture,”
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
sponsored by the Latina/o Communication Studies Division; Chaired the paper session
“Latina Communication Studies: Reframing Narratives of Latina Power, Theory, and
Representation,” also sponsored by the Latina/o Communication Studies Division;
Participated as a mentor in the La Raza Caucus Mentorship Panel; and planned two
sessions for the NCA Mentorship and Leadership Council, including a “Pathways to NCA
Leadership” roundtable. For her two-year service to the Council, Moreira received a
Presidential Citation of Service.
Assistant Professor of Communication Studies Raquel Moreira received the Córdova-
Puchot Scholar of the Year Award given by the National Communication Association’s
Latina/o Communication Studies Division. The award is the Division’s highest honor, and it
recognizes a scholar who has achieved a high level of excellence across the four areas of
teaching, research, service, and advocacy. Moreira received the award during NCA’s 2024
convention held in New Orleans on November 20-24.
NNoovveemmbbeerr 22002244
Associate Professor of Communication Studies Lamiyah Bahrainwala and Assistant
Professor of Communication Studies Jaishikha Nautiyal received the Monograph of the
Year Award for their co-authored article “Queer desi kinships: Reaching across partition.”
The article appears in the Tier-1 journal QED: A Journal in GLBTQ Worldmaking, and
articulates non-Western, and specifically South-Asian, queer praxes. The award is from the
8 of 40 3/24/26, 4:33 PM

--- Page 9 of 40 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/notable-faculty-s...
National Communication Association’s GLBTQ Division. The article can be read here.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
OOccttoobbeerr 22002244
Professor of Communication Studies Valerie Renegar presented a paper at the 9th meeting
of the Nordic Rhetoric Association in Copenhagen, Denmark. The University of Copenhagen
has distinguished itself as one of the finest rhetoric programs in Europe and is making a
worldwide impact in rhetorical studies. The conference theme was “Technology in
Transition,” and Dr. Renegar, along with her co-authors Dr. Stacey Sowards from UT Austin
and Dr. Kristi Cole from NC State, presented a new piece on digital collaboration in research
and teaching, and explored ways that these collaborations can function as mentoring
opportunities. They focused on building and engaging in digital collaboration and the
importance of horizontal mentoring and developing vulnerable relationships outside of an
individual institution.
Assistant Professor of Communication Studies Raquel Moreira has published the article
“Invoking ethnic identity in the service of right-wing rhetoric: an analysis of 2022 Latina
republican candidates in South Texas,” with Dr. Arthur Soto-Vásquez of the University of
Nevada, Las Vegas, in Communication, Culture, and Critique. The essay examines campaign
ads from three Latina GOP candidates in South Texas, in which Moreira and Soto-Vásquez
identified the strategic deployment of conservative ethnic identity that disavows racialized
identity through anti-immigrant rhetoric. Instead of moderating anti-immigration discourse,
as has been suggested by observers on how to attract Latine voters, these candidates
instead redirect the immigrant threat narrative towards other subgroups of Latines. The
9 of 40 3/24/26, 4:33 PM

--- Page 10 of 40 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/notable-faculty-s...
article can be found here.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
The Communication Studies Department was well-represented at the 2024 Biennial Public
Address Conference. This is a highly-selective, invitation-only conference that showcases
scholarship and responses from leading scholars in Rhetoric and Communication Studies.
The University of Texas at Austin hosted this conference September 22-25. Associate
Professor of Communication Studies Lamiyah Bahrainwala (LB) was one of the eight
invited plenary speakers to the conference. She delivered an address, titled “Caste is not a
metaphor,” as a call to the field to grapple with its ignorance of caste, and to reckon with
how caste bolsters “model minority” and white supremacist discourses. Assistant Professor
of Communication Studies Raquel Moreira responded to Dr. Angela Aguayo’s plenary,
“Youth Production as Public Address,” in which she articulated a series of questions
regarding the potential of networked space to produce liberatory content. Assistant
Professor of Communication Studies Jaishikha Nautiyal participated in a panel titled “Anti-
DEI legislation in Texas” and presented her work on “anaerobic rhetoric,” in light of the anti-
DEI legislation in Florida, based on a forthcoming publication in Quarterly Journal of Speech.
JJuullyy 22002244
Assistant Professor of Communication Studies Raquel Moreira has published the essay
“Working for the miracle: A critical, visual analysis of Disney’s Encanto,” along with co-
authors Raisa Alvarado of California State University, San Bernardino and Carlos Flores of
California State University, Sacramento, in the International Journal of Communication.The
essay proposes a visual analysis of Encanto, with particular attention to the cultural tensions
10 of 40 3/24/26, 4:33 PM

--- Page 11 of 40 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/notable-faculty-s...
and ideologies that surround the film, including paratexts produced by Encanto fans via the
streaming platform TikTok. Although the film remains notable for its stylistic displays of
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Latine identities and experiences, its visual choices remain situated in western, settler-
colonial ideologies of oligarchical governance, mestizaje, and postracism. The visual
analysis of Encanto and its related paratexts contributes to scholarship on the labor of
cultural translators on behalf of Disney, expanding it to include unaffiliated Disney
audiences who digitally articulate histories of imperialism, displacement, and their
contemporary counterparts for public audiences. The International Journal of
Communication is an open access, double-blind peer-reviewed journal that is consistently
among the top quartile of journals in communication with highest citation metrics
worldwide. The essay can be read here.
JJuunnee 22002244
Associate Professor of Communication Studies Lamiyah Bahrainwala presented on a
featured “supersession” at the Rhetoric Society of America biennial conference. The panel
focused on climate catastrophes, and Bahrainwala spoke about manual scavenging among
Dalits, the framing of Muslims as “climate culprits,” and the ongoing green colonialism of
Palestine.
Assistant Professor of Communication Studies Raquel Moreira presented two papers at the
Rhetoric Society of America Conference, held in Denver, CO, May 23-27. Moreira presented
the essay “The Place of Blackness in U.S. Constructions of Latinidad,” in which she
investigates Anzaldúa’s legacy of mestizaje and hybridity as foundational for the absence of
11 of 40 3/24/26, 4:33 PM

--- Page 12 of 40 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/notable-faculty-s...
studies about Blackness and antiblackness in Latine Communication Studies. Additionally,
she presented on the failures of media literacy and “informational bootstraps” approaches
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
in the classroom in the face of growing monetized and organized disinformation campaigns.
Assistant Professor of Communication Studies Raquel Moreira was among 30 scholars
invited to participate in the Viral Movements Symposium, hosted at Penn State on May 14
and 15. The symposium was organized by Lisa Flores, the Josephine Berry Weiss Chair of
the Humanities, and featured scholars from the humanities and life sciences to discuss the
topics of (im)mobility, (mis)information, and (mis)management.
MMaayy 22002244
Professor of Communication Studies Valerie Renegar furthered her research agenda on the
rhetoric surrounding stepmothers by presenting on Kamala Harris as an antidote to
traditional stepmother stereotypes in Barcelona, Spain at the International Conference on
Gender Research in late April.
12 of 40 3/24/26, 4:33 PM

--- Page 13 of 40 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/notable-faculty-s...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
AApprriill 22002244
Professor of Communication Studies Bob Bednar presented a plenary talk titled “Bringing
the Archives Out of the Archives: Mobilizing and Reframing University Archives in Critiques
of Campus Commemorative Landscapes” at the Austin Archives Bazaar, held at Scholz
Garten in Austin on April 14. The talk described the experience of developing the Placing
Memory Interactive Story Map in Summer 2023 with Megan Firestone, Head of Distinctive
Collections and Archives, and a team of 11 student researchers: Bettina Castillo ’24, Max
Colley ’24, Adrianna Flores-Vivas ’24, Lainey Gutierrez ’25, Teddy Hoffman ’24, Hannah
Jury ’24, Shawn Maganda ’24, Harper Randolph ’25, Andrea Stanescu ’24, Michelle
Taing ’24, and Ava Zumpano ’25.
Associate Professor of Communication Studies Lamiyah Bahrainwala (LB) published an
article along with co-author Dr. Jaishikha Nautiyal in the journal QED: A Journal in GLBTQ
Worldmaking. The article, “Queer Desi Kinships: Reaching across Partition,” offers
ethnographic accounts of how casteism, anti-Muslim sentiment, and anti desi-queerness
diminish desi solidarities in white and western contexts, including academia. They argue
that the 1947 Partition of Pakistan and India is still ongoing, and worldwide. Dr. Nautiyal is
also joining the Communication Studies Department in Fall 2024, and we are very lucky to
have her. The article can be read here.
13 of 40 3/24/26, 4:33 PM

--- Page 14 of 40 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/notable-faculty-s...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
MMaarrcchh 22002244
Associate Professor of Communication Studies Lamiyah Bahrainwala and SU
students R’Yani Vaughn ’24 and Sydney Wahl ’24 attended the 2024 Western States
Communication Association (WSCA) Undergraduate Scholars Research Conference in Reno,
NV. Lamiyah supervised R’Yani and Sydney’s senior projects, which were anonymously
reviewed and competitively selected for presentation: “Exploring Depictions of Black
Motherhood in the Music Industry,” R’Yani Sydnee-LeChe’ Vaugn, and “From Samoan
Warrior to American Traitor: The Media Framing Creations plus Exceptionalism, Nationalism,
and Masculine Perfectionism Reactions that hanger the Course of Football Star Manti Te’o’s
Life,” Sydney Lee Wahl. Senior scholars as well as the WSCA President themself spoke with
these students and attempted to recruit them to their graduate programs. Congratulations
to these impressive students!
FFeebbrruuaarryy 22002244
Part-Time Assistant Professor of Communication Studies Katharine Hodgdon has been
appointed as a contributor for The Wall Street Journal’s Critical Thinking Resources
publication. This resource summarizes articles appearing in the Journal and provides
thought-provoking, free-response questions to be used for class discussions. Katharine’s
contributions will focus on informative and persuasive communication techniques utilized by
reporters and journalists to explain current events.
14 of 40 3/24/26, 4:33 PM

--- Page 15 of 40 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/notable-faculty-s...
Associate Professor of Communication Studies Lamiyah Bahrainwala gave an invited
lecture at Arizona State University on January 16, 2023. The virtual talk discussed the role
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
of the critic and public scholarship to graduate students in a Research Methods seminar.
Assistant Professor of Communication Studies Raquel Moreira published the article,
“Rhetorics of authentic hybridity and the racially mobile mestiça in ‘Girl from Rio,’” in the
Quarterly Journal of Speech. The essay challenges common readings of Latinidad’s racial
hybridity as a transgressive in-betweenness against the Black/white racial binary, focusing
instead on how this rhetorical construction produces racial mobility, specifically toward
whiteness. The Quarterly Journal of Speech is the field’s most prestigious journal, a peer-
reviewed publication of the National Communication Association.
DDeecceemmbbeerr 22002233
Associate Professor and Chair of Communication Studies Lamiyah Bahrainwala (LB)
attended the 2023 National Communication Association conference, the discipline’s
flagship conference, in National Harbor, MD:
1. LB presented on three panels: a roundtable discussion on extractivism and energy justice, a
roundtable discussion on the “bamboo ceiling” about challenges undercutting Asian
scholars, and a co-authored-paper presentation on de-whitening consent amidst COVID-19
rhetoric.
2. LB received a Top Paper Award for her co-authored paper from the Critical/Cultural Studies
Division.
3. LB assumed responsibility as elected Vice Chair of the Feminist and Gender Studies
15 of 40 3/24/26, 4:33 PM

--- Page 16 of 40 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/notable-faculty-s...
Division and will plan the division’s NCA Program for 2024.
4. LB chaired a panel on misogyny in international media.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
• Assistant Professor of Communication Studies Raquel Moreira participated in the
following activities at the National Communication Association Annual Conference in
National Harbor, MD, on November 15–19:
1. Presented on the necessity to decolonize childhood in the panel, “Intimate Freedoms:
Building Decolonial Relations across Communicative Contexts.”
2. Presented on rethinking and rebuilding gendered and racialized structures in the panel,
“Comadrisma Collective: Envisioning and Co-creating Communities of Care.”
3. Participated as an invited scholar in NCA’s Scholars’ Office Hours.
4. Participated as a mentor in La Raza’s Mentorship Gathering.
5. Chaired the NCA Mentorship and Leadership Council business meeting.
6. Responded to four papers in the session, “Narratives on Race, Nation, Masculinity, Anti-
Blackness, and Fat-Phobia.”
7. Participated in both the NCA Executive Community and the Legislative Assembly meetings
as a voting member.
OOccttoobbeerr 22002233
Assistant Professor of Communication Studies Raquel Moreira has published the chapter,
“Dragging White Femininity: Race and Gender Inauthenticity on Instagram,” in The
Routledge Handbook of Ethnicity and Race in Communication, published in October 2023.
16 of 40 3/24/26, 4:33 PM

--- Page 17 of 40 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/notable-faculty-s...
The link to the full table of contents can be found here.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
SSeepptteemmbbeerr 22002233
Professor of Communication Studies Bob Bednar has published an article titled “Roadside
Media: Roadside Crash Shrines as Platforms for Communicating Across Time, Space, and
Mortality in the Early 2000s United States” in Cultural and Social History, The Journal of the
Social History Society. The article traces the recent history of roadside shrines to show that
they are not only entangled with other contemporary media forms but have also developed
into miniaturized and materialized social media platforms. The article officially comes out in
print later this winter and is now available here.
Chair and Associate Professor of Communication Studies Lamiyah Bahrainwala (LB)
published a new article titled “De-whitening consent amidst COVID-19 rhetoric” with her
co-author Dr. Kate Lockwood Harris (UMN). This article appears in the Quarterly Journal of
Speech, the #1 ranked journal in rhetoric. It discusses how existing consent rhetorics are
constituted against the specter of Black Muslim women and calls for a de-whitening of
consent norms by building on lessons learned from COVID-19. You can read more here.
17 of 40 3/24/26, 4:33 PM

--- Page 18 of 40 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/notable-faculty-s...
Associate Professor and Chair of Communication Studies Lamiyah Bahrainwala (LB)
published an invited chapter titled “Critical surveillance studies: Living ethically in a
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
surveillant world.” It appears in the textbook “Introduction to Communication Studies:
Translating Communication Scholarship into Meaningful Practice” published by Kendall
Hunt. Read more here
AAuugguusstt 22002233
Associate Professor of Communication Studies Lamiyah Bahrainwala has been selected to
present on a “Top Paper Panel” at the 2023 National Communication Association
conference. Her paper, co-authored with Dr. Kate Lockwood Harris, is titled “De-Whitening
Consent Amidst COVID-19 Rhetoric” and examines how the r/ejection of Black Muslim
women foundationalizes discourse on bodily autonomy and social distancing.
Professor of Communication Studies Valerie Renegar visited Queens University, a liberal
arts school in Charlotte, North Carolina, to conduct an academic program review of the
undergraduate programs in the Knight School of Communication.
18 of 40 3/24/26, 4:33 PM

--- Page 19 of 40 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/notable-faculty-s...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
JJuullyy 22002233
Assistant Professor of Communication Studies Raquel Moreira published the essay, “‘Didn’t
She Used to Sell That WAP?’: Cardi B, Clashing Femininities, and Citizenship,” in Women’s
Studies in Communication. The article argues that conservative reactions to Cardi B’s
performances of racialized and classed femininity on Twitter, especially from right-wing
cisgender women, aimed to put the rapper “in her place,” which is outside of politics and in
opposition to (white) American values. Even though Cardi B’s working-class Black femininity
places her outside of discourses of normative U.S. citizenship and meritocracy, the rapper
“makes herself at home” by engaging in civic practices regardless of the classist misogynoir
directed at her. The article is available here.
MMaayy 22002233
Teddy Hoffman ’24 presented a paper at the Communicating Diversity Conference at Texas
A&M University on May 6, 2023. Her paper, “Resisting Geographies of Fear and Enacting a
Safer World: Solo Female Travel Influencers and their Rhetorical Constructions,” was
supervised by Professor of Communication Studies Bob Bednar. The paper received one of
only two Top Undergraduate Paper prizes awarded at the conference.
Professor of Communication Studies Valerie Renegar presented work related to her
ongoing research program on step-mothering rhetoric in a paper about Kamala Harris at the
19 of 40 3/24/26, 4:33 PM

--- Page 20 of 40 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/notable-faculty-s...
6th Days of Ivo Škarić in Postira, Croatia, last week. This conference drew notable rhetorical
scholars from eight countries together for four days of presentations. The conference also
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
included field trips to cultural sites on the island.
AApprriill 22002233
Assistant Professor of Communication Studies Raquel Moreira received the Innovator
Award for Most Outstanding Book from the Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity Caucus
at the Central States Communication Association Annual Conference in St. Louis, MO, for
her monograph, Bitches Unleashed: Performance and Embodied Politics in Favela Funk. At
the conference, Moreira also presented the paper “The Right Girl from Rio: Anita’s
Crossover and Latinidad’s Whiteness” and participated in the panel discussion “Effective
Inclusive Pedagogical Practices by and for Silenced Voices.”
Associate Professor of Communication Studies Lamiyah Bahrainwala gave an invited
virtual talk on March 22 at the University of Minnesota Twin Cities on the topic of feminist
collaboration. Bahrainwala spoke with graduate students in the seminar “Feminist
Organizing” about possibilities for coalition building and the settler contours of “breaking
ground” ideology in the academy.
20 of 40 3/24/26, 4:33 PM

--- Page 21 of 40 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/notable-faculty-s...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
MMaarrcchh 22002233
Assistant Professor of Communication Studies Lamiyah Bahrainwala steered several
student projects that were presented and recognized at a highly selective regional
conference. Five Southwestern students traveled to Phoenix, Arizona, to present their
research at the 2023 Undergraduate Scholars Research Conference hosted by the Western
States Communication Association. This marks the third conference Bahrainwala has
mentored her students through. Faculty reviewers and the conference Chair commended
the students afterward and attempted to recruit them to their graduate programs. These
outstanding students also swept the awards, winning three out of the four Top Paper
Awards presented at this conference. Katie Love ’23 won a Top Paper Award for her paper
“It’s About Damn Time: Lizzo’s Impact on Fat Identity, Fat Celebrity, and Societal
Perceptions of Fatness.” Preston Willis ’23 won a Top Paper Award for his paper “Queer
Icons & Queering Iconography: Lady Gaga’s Liberal Use of Religion in Born This Way.” Jenna
Baird ’23 presented her paper “The Animalization of Blackness within Disney’s Animated
Films: New Imagined Ways of Being Racist.” Jordan Preston ’23 won a Top Paper Award for
her paper “Miley Cyrus: White Feminism and Queernormativity in Contemporary Pop
Culture.” Caden Cox ’23 presented his paper “Shaping Your Type: How Dating Apps Effect
and Influence Queer Relationships For Men.” This is the second time Cox was invited to
present at this conference and received a Top Paper Award from this conference last year.
Southwestern students Nina Mitrofanova ’23 and Alli Ziehm ’23 were also invited to present.
Congratulations to these outstanding students!
FFeebbuurraarryy 22002233
Professor of Communications Studies Valerie Renegar and Kristi Cole co-edited the book
Refiguring Motherhood Beyond Biology, which was published this month. The book features
21 of 40 3/24/26, 4:33 PM

--- Page 22 of 40 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/notable-faculty-s...
essays that challenge the biological expectations of motherhood and features work by
communication, rhetoric, and motherhood scholars across the country, including
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Southwestern’s Renegar, Assistant Professor of Communication Studies Lamiyah
Bahrainwala, Professor of Spanish Katy Ross, and her student Bailey Barlow ’23.
DDeecceemmbbeerr 22002222
Associate Professor of Feminist Studies Brenda Sendejo and Assistant Professor of
Communication Studies Lamiyah Bahrainwala attended the El Mundo Zurdo conference for
the Society for the Study of Gloria Anzaldúa at the University of Texas at San Antonio from
November 4-5. The roundtable that Bahrainwala and Sendejo co-organized was titled
“Reflections on Radical Love, Care, and Consent: How Anzaldúa Informs Our Liberatory
Praxis.” Bahrainwala presented “Pandemic lessons: Consent as anti-Racism,” and Sendejo
presented “Movidas of Healing: The Spirit Work of Movement Era Chicanas.” The roundtable
was well attended by lead scholars in the field of Anzaldúan Thought.
22 of 40 3/24/26, 4:33 PM

--- Page 23 of 40 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/notable-faculty-s...
Assistant Professor of Communication Studies Lamiyah Bahrainwala was an invited virtual
speaker at the University of Nevada, Reno in an undergraduate seminar on New Media. The
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
talk focused on feminist surveillance studies and surveillance ecosystems in public spaces
built for children.
Assistant Professor of Communication Studies Lamiyah Bahrainwala attended the National
Communication Association Convention in New Orleans from November 16-19, during which
time she received a Distinguished Scholarship Award for Top Article from the International
and Intercultural Communication Division. Bahrainwala organized, chaired, and presented on
a panel titled Queer Desi Kinship, exploring how queering the 1947 Partition of India and
Pakistan offers non-Western lessons towards queer scholarship, and fulfilled her
commitments as Second Vice-Chair of the Feminist and Women Studies Division.
Assistant Professor of Communication Studies Lamiyah Bahrainwala was an invited virtual
speaker at Arizona State University in the graduate seminar Rhetorical Methods. Students
read two of Bahrainwala’s publications on equity work in the academy, and her talk focused
on the role of critic in rhetorical criticism and maintaining energy while doing the difficult
labor of critiquing inequitable structures.
23 of 40 3/24/26, 4:33 PM

--- Page 24 of 40 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/notable-faculty-s...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
NNoovveemmbbeerr 22002222
• Assistant Professor of Communication Studies Raquel Moreira engaged in a number
of activities at the 2022 National Communication Association (NCA) Annual Convention
in New Orleans. Moreira received the International and Intercultural Communication
Division’s Best Book Award for Bitches Unleashed: Performance and Embodied Politics
in Favela Funk. Additionally, she presented the following papers:
1. “Mestiçagem and Racial spatiality in Anitta’s ‘Girl from Rio,’” co-planned paper session with
Texas AM’s Dr. Bryce Henderson and sponsored by the Critical and Cultural Studies
Division.
2. “Dragging White Femininity: Pabllo Vittar’s Performances of Gender and Race on
Instagram,” paper session sponsored by the GLBTQ Communication Studies Division.
3. “Communication Needs Transfeminismo: How a Brazilian Political and Epistemological
Movement Can Help Decolonize Our Discipline,” presented in Portuguese for a multilingual
panel about structural violence sponsored by NCA’s First Vice President.
Finally, Moreira participated as a panelist in the following:
1. “Spotlight on Scholarship: New Books in Latina/o/x Communication Studies,” sponsored by
NCA’s First Vice President.
2. “Publishing Race Scholarship in Communication Studies: Challenges Faced by Scholars of
Color and/or International Scholars in the Field,” sponsored by NCA’s First Vice President.
3. “Latinx Faculty: Finding our PLACE in Predominantly White Institutions,” sponsored by the
La Raza Caucus.
4. “The Future of the La Raza Caucus: An Open Forum,” a session co-chaired with Dr. Michelle
Holling and sponsored by the La Raza Caucus.
5. “Shared Governance as a Place for Advocacy: Examining How the Neoliberal University is
Dismantling Community Deliberation,” sponsored by the Association for Communication
Administration.
24 of 40 3/24/26, 4:33 PM

--- Page 25 of 40 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/notable-faculty-s...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Professor of Communication Studies Bob Bednar published an article titled “Trauma
Remains: The Material Afterlives of the 1989 Alton School Bus Crash,” in the October 2022
issue of the Journal of Material Culture. The article analyzes the ways a large roadside
shrine in South Texas where 21 middle and high school students were killed in a crash in
1989 continues to quietly but forcefully reverberate as a site of collective trauma more than
thirty years later.
AAuugguusstt 22002222
Associate Professor of Education Alicia Moore and Assistant Professor of Communication
Studies Lamiyah Bahrainwala were invited to speak on a parent-education panel for Child’s
Day, a child development center in Austin, on the topic of talking to children about race. The
well-attended panel, which featured K–12 educators and organizers, continued Moore’s and
Bahrainwala’s public-education efforts on inclusion work.
Assistant Professor of Communication Studies Lamiyah Bahrainwala received the
2022 Fellows’ Early Career Award from the Rhetoric Society of America. This award is
presented each year to a scholar who has contributed significant, innovative, boundary-
expanding research to the discipline. The nomination pool included tenured and associate
professors and typically goes to scholars at research-leading institutions.
25 of 40 3/24/26, 4:33 PM

--- Page 26 of 40 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/notable-faculty-s...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
JJuunnee 22002222
Assistant Professor of Communication Studies Raquel Moreira was interviewed and quoted
as an expert source for an Los Angeles Timesprofile featuring Brazilian pop star Anitta, who
is set to perform at LA Pride 2022.
MMaayy 22002222
Assistant Professor of Communication Studies Lamiyah Bahrainwala supervised four
student projects presented at the Communicating Diversity Student Conference 2022
hosted by Texas A&M University. Congratulations to the following scholars:
• Mary Smith ’23: “Hegemonic Masculinity and Duke Cannon Supply Co.”
• Preston Willis ’23: “‘Taylor Swift Doesn’t Write Her Own Music’: Discourse On
Women’s Ownership, Androcentrism in the Music Industry, and the Emergence of
Swiftian Feminism”
• Katie Love ’23: “Play it Again: The Story Behind Taylor Swift’s Re-recordings and
Professional Heartbreak”
• Jessica Bettis ’23: “Tragedy at Astroworld: How Unintentional Loss Makes an
26 of 40 3/24/26, 4:33 PM

--- Page 27 of 40 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/notable-faculty-s...
Impact”
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
AApprriill 22002222
Assistant Professor of Communication Studies Rico Self was invited to deliver the
prestigious LSU Geaux Rhetoric Speaker Series keynote, which commands a national
audience, on March 10. Self followed in the illustrious footsteps of renowned communication
studies scholars Ersula Ore, Steven Salaita, and Jo Hsu. His keynote discussed black
womanist and feminist rhetoric of the J-Settes, a collegiate women’s dance line.
Professor of Communication Studies Bob Bednar was one of the central people interviewed
for The Taking, a feature-length documentary film by Alexandre O. Phillipe about Monument
Valley. The film explores how Monument Valley, located on the border of Arizona and Utah
but also within the Navajo Nation, has repeatedly been made into a symbol of the white
settler myth of the American West by filmmakers and other media producers while denying
Navajo sovereignty and subjectivity. The Taking has appeared at multiple film festivals in the
last several months, including the BFI London Film Festival, Fantastic Fest in Austin, and the
New Zealand International Film Festival.
27 of 40 3/24/26, 4:33 PM

--- Page 28 of 40 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/notable-faculty-s...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Professor of Communication Studies Valerie Renegar traveled to Greenville, South
Carolina, to representat the Southern States Communication
Association Annual Convention in April. She presented a paper titled “Jill Biden, Resistance,
and Stepmothering: Resilience in the Neoliberal Landscape” and was an invited guest on a
panel focused on student accessibility and increasing diversity in online teaching.
Demi Tomasides ’22 presented her paper “Othered: The Black and White Portrayal of
Neurodiversity in Grey’s Anatomy” at the 2022 Alpha Chi National Convention, held March
24–26 in Austin, Texas. Assistant Professor of Communication Studies Lamiyah
Bahrainwala supervised her project.
Assistant Professor of Communication Studies Lamiyah Bahrainwala recently delivered
two guest lectures: “Potty Politics” was delivered to honors undergraduate students at the
University of Texas at Austin, and “Feminist Collaboration” was delivered to a feminist
organizing graduate seminar at the University of Minnesota Twin Cities.
28 of 40 3/24/26, 4:33 PM

--- Page 29 of 40 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/notable-faculty-s...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
MMaarrcchh 22002222
Assistant Professor of Communication Studies Lamiyah Bahrainwala steered several
student projects that were accepted, presented, and recognized at a highly selective
regional conference. The following Southwestern students traveled to Portland, Oregon, to
present their research at the 2022 Undergraduate Scholars Research Conference hosted by
the Western States Communication Association:
• Maddie Brent ’ 22 presented her paper “An Investigation into the Netflix Original
Show ‘Love Is Blind’ and the Subversive Racism and Homophobia Perpetuated through
the Production of Carlton Morton’s public ‘Coming Out’ Storyline.”
• Emily Funk ’ 23 presented her paper “Women and the Stars: Antifeminism in
Critiques of Pop Astrology.”
• Amanda Smith ’ 23 presented her paper “The Invisible Labor of Fake Happy.”
• Demi Tomasides ’ 22 presented her paper “Othered: The Black and White Portrayal
of Neurodiversity in ‘Grey’s Anatomy.’”
• Caden Cox ’ 23 won the Top Paper Award for his paper “Call Me by Your Name: Lil
Nas X and Queerness in Rap and Pop.”
Southwestern students Nina Mitrofanova ’23, Alli Ziehm ’23, and Bri McCalla ’22 also
were invited to present. Congratulations to these outstanding students!
FFeebbuurraarryy 22002222
Assistant Professor of Communication Studies Lamiyah Bahrainwala steered several
29 of 40 3/24/26, 4:33 PM

--- Page 30 of 40 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/notable-faculty-s...
student projects that were accepted, presented, and recognized at a highly selective
regional conference. The following Southwestern students traveled to Portland, Oregon, to
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
present their research at the 2022 Undergraduate Scholars Research Conference hosted by
the Western States Communication Association:
• Maddie Brent ’ 22 presented her paper “An Investigation into the Netflix Original
Show ‘Love Is Blind’ and the Subversive Racism and Homophobia Perpetuated through
the Production of Carlton Morton’s public ‘Coming Out’ Storyline.”
• Emily Funk ’ 23 presented her paper “Women and the Stars: Antifeminism in
Critiques of Pop Astrology.”
• Amanda Smith ’ 23 presented her paper “The Invisible Labor of Fake Happy.”
• Demi Tomasides ’ 22 presented her paper “Othered: The Black and White Portrayal
of Neurodiversity in ‘Grey’s Anatomy.’”
• Caden Cox ’ 23 won the Top Paper Award for his paper “Call Me by Your Name: Lil
Nas X and Queerness in Rap and Pop.”
Southwestern students Nina Mitrofanova ’23, Alli Ziehm ’23, and Bri McCalla ’22 also
were invited to present. Congratulations to these outstanding students!
DDeecceemmbbeerr 22002211
The Department of Communication Studies took the National Communication Association
(NCA) 107th Annual Convention by storm the weekend before Thanksgiving in Seattle.
Assistant Professor of Communication Studies Lamiyah Bahrainwala, Assistant Professor
of Communication Studies Raquel Moreira, Assistant Professor of Communication
Studies Rico Self, and Professor of Communication Studies Valerie Renegar all presented
research and participated in roundtable discussions on a variety of topics, including queer
motherhood (Self), surveillance during transformative moments (Bahrainwala), comedy and
30 of 40 3/24/26, 4:33 PM

--- Page 31 of 40 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/notable-faculty-s...
social change (Renegar), and Cardi B (Moreira). In total, they participated in 12 different
research presentations or discussions.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
The faculty members also formed the cheering section when Moreira won the 2021 Bonnie
Ritter Outstanding Feminist Book Award from NCA’s Feminist and Gender Studies Division
and Self won the 2021 Gerald R. Miller Outstanding Doctoral Dissertation Award. Because
NCA is the largest professional organization for communication scholars, these
presentations and awards designate an especially high level of achievement.
NNoovveemmbbeerr 22002211
Assistant Professor of Communication Studies Raquel Moreira engaged in a number of
activities at the 2021 National Communication Association Annual Convention in Seattle.
She presented the following papers:
• “‘Didn’t She Used to Sell that WAP?’: Cardi B, Clashing Femininities, and Political
Discourse on Twitter” in a paper session sponsored by the Feminist and Gender Studies
Division
• “Leaving the Precarious Liberal Arts” in a paper session sponsored by the
Economics, Communication, and Society Division
Additionally, Moreira participated as a panelist in the following:
• “Pandemic Parenthood: On Academia, Latina Motherhood, Exhaustion, and the
Future,” a panel she cowrote with Raisa Alvarado that was cosponsored by the La Raza
and Women’s caucuses
• “Renewing a Commitment to Mentorship in La Raza Caucus,” an annual mentorship
31 of 40 3/24/26, 4:33 PM

--- Page 32 of 40 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/notable-faculty-s...
panel dedicated to Latina/o/x scholars in all stages of their careers
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Finally, Moreira completed her third and final year as the parliamentarian of the joint
business meeting of the Latino/a Communication Studies Division and La Raza Caucus.
Assistant Professor of Communication Studies Lamiyah Bahrainwala’s article titled
“Shithole Rhetorics” was the lead article in the August 2021 issue of the Journal of
International and Intercultural Communication.
Professor of Communication Studies Bob Bednar presented a paper titled “Figuring the
Cost of Automobility: Roadside Car Crash Shrines as the Materialization of Collective
Trauma” at the International Association for the History of Transport, Traffic, and Mobility
(T2M) 19th Annual Conference. The conference was hosted in Lisbon, Portugal, but
conducted virtually from November 3–5.
OOccttoobbeerr 22002211
Assistant Professor of Communication Studies Lamiyah Bahrainwala gave a guest talk at a
32 of 40 3/24/26, 4:33 PM

--- Page 33 of 40 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/notable-faculty-s...
graduate-level seminar in communication theory at the University of Nevada, Reno.
Bahrainwala talked about the role of disability in anti-Muslim sentiment and anti-Blackness.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Students read and responded to her “Blind Submission” article, which looks at
bizarre videos of blindfolded Muslim men offering hugs to passersby.
Assistant Professor of Communication Studies Raquel Moreira has won the 2021 Bonnie
Ritter Outstanding Feminist Book Award from the National Communication Association’s
(NCA’s) Feminist and Gender Studies Division for her book Bitches Unleashed: Performance
and Embodied Politics in Favela Funk (Peter Lang, 2021). The annual award honors a
recently published scholarly book in the field of communication that interrogates questions
related to feminism, women studies, and gender. Moreira will be presented with the award in
November at the NCA 107th Annual Convention in Seattle.
AAuugguusstt 22002211
Assistant Professor of Communication Studies Raquel Moreira has won the 2021
Organization for the Study of Communication, Language, and Gender’s Anita Taylor
Outstanding Award for her article “De-Whitening Intersectionality through Transfeminismo.”
33 of 40 3/24/26, 4:33 PM

--- Page 34 of 40 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/notable-faculty-s...
Assistant Professor Rico Self has earned the Organization for the Study of Communication,
Language, and Gender’s Cheris Kramarae Outstanding Dissertation Award for his work “Ties
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
that Bind: Black Familyness and the Politics of Contingent Coalitions.” This brings Self’s
awards for his dissertation up to four, and that’s not including the 2021 RSA Dissertation
Award Honorable Mention he just received.
JJuullyy 22002211
Professor of Communication Studies Bob Bednar presented a paper titled “Communicating
with the Dead: Roadside Car Crash Shrines as Platforms for Bridging Time, Distance, and
Mortality” at the Distant Communications Virtual Conference, hosted by Midlands4Cities
and the Royal Historical Society, on July 21, 2021. This interdisciplinary conference based in
the U.K. brought together international scholars interested in contextualizing the remote
communication practices necessitated by the pandemic through historical antecedents and
material-culture analogues for communicating across spatial, temporal, and cultural
distance.
JJuunnee 22002211
Assistant Professor of Communication Studies Rico Self had a new essay published in the
most recent version of Women’s Studies in Communication. “‘If You Cared about the
People, You Would Have Cared about Me’: Constructing Black Trans Allyship inChasing:
34 of 40 3/24/26, 4:33 PM

--- Page 35 of 40 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/notable-faculty-s...
Atlanta” draws on Self’s ongoing commitment to coalition building and trans communities.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
MMaayy 22002211
Assistant Professor of Communication Studies Rico Self won the Louisiana State University
Department of Women and Gender Studies Outstanding Dissertation Award for 2020–2021.
His dissertation, “Ties That Bind: Black Familyness and the Politics of Contingent
Coalitions,” explores a range of Black coalitions from rhetorical, queer, and gender
dimensions.
Please join us in congratulating the recipients of the following awards:
• 2021 Teaching Awards
• Tenured: Associate Professor of Education Alicia Moore
• Tenure-track: Assistant Professor of Business Gabriela Flores
• Visiting, part-time, and staff with faculty rank: Director of General Chemistry
Labs Willis Weigand
• 2021 Jesse E. Purdy Excellence in Scholarly and Creative Works Award
• Tenured: Associate Professor of Communication Studies Bob Bednar
• Tenure-track: Assistant Professor of History Joseph Hower
35 of 40 3/24/26, 4:33 PM

--- Page 36 of 40 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/notable-faculty-s...
• 2021 Excellence in Advising Award
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
• Professor of SpanishLaura Senio Blair
JJaannuuaarryy 22002211
The Communication Studies Department was well represented at this year’s (virtual)
National Communication Association Conference. Assistant Professor Rico Self gave
several talks about Black femininity and anti-Black stereotyping in addition to chairing two
panels and receiving a Top Paper Award in the Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, Transgender, and
Queer Communication Studies Division (woot!) for his coauthored paper “BbyMutha’s
Readings as Black Queer Feminine Refusal.” Assistant Professor Lamiyah Bahrainwala (LB)
gave two talks about rock-star fascism and menstrual surveillance in nonwhite contexts.
Associate Professor Valerie Renegar gave a talk on coauthoring and collaborative
scholarship in rhetorical studies. Overall, much knowledge was dropped.
SSeepptteemmbbeerr 22002200
Assistant Professor of Communication Studies Lamiyah Bahrainwala (LB) published the
article “Shithole Rhetorics” in the Journal of International and Intercultural Communication.
LB has been preoccupied with potties, and it turns out that toileting discourse suffuses
36 of 40 3/24/26, 4:33 PM

--- Page 37 of 40 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/notable-faculty-s...
anti-immigrant, antidisability, antiqueer and anti-Muslim rhetorics. She apologizes for the
profanity in the title, but it is a direct quote.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
AAuugguusstt 22002200
Associate Professor of Communication Studies Bob Bednar has had his book Road Scars:
Place, Automobility, and Road Trauma published by Rowman & Littlefield in their Place,
Memory, Affect series. The book, which argues that roadside car crash shrines visually,
materially, and spatially demonstrate an unresolved cultural trauma embedded within
American car culture, is based on nearly two decades of fieldwork in the Southwestern U.S.
and features 172 original color photographs.
JJuullyy 22002200
Cargill Endowed Chair and Associate Professor of Education Alicia Moore and Margarett
Root Brown Chair in Fine Arts and Professor of Music Michael Cooper collaborated with
pianist Lara Downes to produce a crowdsourced recitation of the Civil Rights “Credo” of W.
E. B. Du Bois for the podcast We Need Gentle Truths for Now, hosted by Alexandra Juhasz.
Seven SU faculty and staff (Part-Time Instructor of Applied Music Adrienne Inglis,
Associate Professor of Music Jason Hoogerhyde, Professor of Music Kiyoshi Tamagawa,
Professor of Music Lois Ferrari, Sarofim School of Fine Arts Coordinator Olivia Wise,
Assistant Dean for Student Multicultural Affairs Terri Johnson, and Associate Professor of
37 of 40 3/24/26, 4:33 PM

--- Page 38 of 40 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/notable-faculty-s...
Communication Studies Valerie Renegar), three current students (Alexis Lemus ’22, Grace
Sexton ’22, and Shelby Avants ’21), and six alumnae (Erin McHugh ’09, Isabel
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Tweraser ’19, Julia Fowler ’15, Katiebeth Brandt ’19, Kinley Johnson ’17, and Sara
Watson ’13) participated in the recitation, along with 25 other participants Black and white,
ages 5 to 81, from the Americas and Europe, representing four native languages. The
podcast is available here. The recitation is also available as a YouTube video titled
“Testimony: A #BlackLivesMatter Manifesto after the Credo of W.E.B. Du Bois,” here.
JJuunnee 22002200
Part-Time Instructor of Communication Studies Katie Bradford has completed a Ph.D. in
Communication Studies at The University of Texas at Austin. Her dissertation, “Moving
between the Conversation ‘at Hand’ and the ‘Handheld’ Conversation: Participation in Family
Dinners with Smartphones,” investigates how people incorporate technology into their face-
to-face interactions. Her research responds to contemporary concerns about smartphones
and their impact on communication—and is novel because it is based on an analysis of
video-recorded natural conversational data, not just surveys or observations.
Assistant Professor of Communication Studies Lamiyah Bahrainwala (LB) published the
article “Precarity, Citizenship, and the ‘Traditional’ Student” in the journal Communication
Education some time this spring, when she had already stopped using a calendar. She is
grateful to the Southwestern students who educated her about what their precarities look
like. If you feel at all inclined to read it, LB suggests waiting until you are in a good place
emotionally.
38 of 40 3/24/26, 4:33 PM

--- Page 39 of 40 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/notable-faculty-s...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
JJaannuuaarryy 22002200
Associate Professor of Communication Studies Bob Bednar presented a paper titled
“Trauma Remains: The Material Temporalities of Objects Placed at Roadside Crash Shrines”
at the Material Temporalities Workshop at the Max Planck Institute for the Study of Religious
and Ethnic Diversity, in Göttingen, Germany, on January 23–24, 2020.
Assistant Professor of Communication Studies Lamiyah Bahrainwala (LB) published a
chapter titled “Visible Allies and Muslim Inclusion” in the book Academic Labor beyond the
College Classroom: Working for Our Values(edited by Holly Hassel and Kirsti Cole). The
chapter discusses the Muslims in Academia Symposium that took place at Southwestern in
spring 2019.
39 of 40 3/24/26, 4:33 PM

--- Page 40 of 40 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/communication-studies/notable-faculty-s...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
GGEEOORRGGEETTOOWWNN,, TTEEXXAASS
551122..886633..66551111
CCOONNTTAACCTT
40 of 40 3/24/26, 4:33 PM