--- Page 1 of 2 ---

Biologyabout:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.southwestern.edu%2Fbiolo...
southwestern.edu
Biology
~3 minutes
Majoring or minoring in biology acts as your gateway to a richer
understanding of living organisms, from the molecules within cells
to the biosphere that encompasses all of Earth’s ecosystems. At
Southwestern, you’ll deepen your knowledge of molecular
processes, ecological diversity, genetics, the human body, and
evolution through our rich and wide-ranging curriculum. You’ll
engage in thoughtful assignments and projects while gaining
hands-on experience in our state-of-the-art on-campus
laboratories. You will have opportunities to conduct research and
collaborate with our engaged and enthusiastic faculty on a range
of projects, such as studying
• diversity & distribution of snails using genetics and field sampling
• DNA repair & mutation
• development & progression of breast & uterine cancer
• gene expression within bacteria
• complexities of antibiotic resistance
• relationships between natural selection & gene evolution
• ecology of coral reefs
• development of neural circuits in the brain
1 of 2 3/24/26, 2:20 PM

--- Page 2 of 2 ---

Biologyabout:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.southwestern.edu%2Fbiolo...
• anatomy & physiology of the sygnathid reproductive system
Majors may choose to pursue either a bachelor of arts or a
bachelor of science. Our students often take courses in SU’s
robust Environmental Studies Program or elect one of our
interdisciplinary minors, such as Health Studies, Data Analytics,
and Neuroscience. In addition, SU offers pre-professional
pathways in the areas of pre-medicine, pre-dental, and pre-
veterinary medicine that will provide you with personalized
advising and other helpful resources that will prepare your for
advanced study. No matter which path you choose, you will have
numerous career choices from which to choose. Our alumni have
gone on to successfully complete graduate and professional
programs in the dental, medical, medical technology, nursing,
optometry, pharmacy, and veterinary fields. They’ve also enjoyed
satisfying careers in industry, government, nonprofit organizations,
public health, and education.
We also strive to provide a safe and supportive environment for all
students, including, but not limited to, students of color, sexual and
gender minorities, low-income students, first-generation students,
differently-abled students and those with chronic health conditions.
Click here to learn more about our Department’s commitment to
diversity, inclusion, belonging and equity.
2 of 2 3/24/26, 2:20 PM