--- Page 1 of 5 ---

Engagement Opportunitiesabout:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.southwestern.edu%2Fbiolo...
southwestern.edu
Engagement Opportunities
6–7 minutes
Biological Honors Society - Beta Beta Beta
The Delta Alpha Chapter of Tri-Beta atprovides resources and support to the work of student biologists at
Southwestern. First-year students can apply to be Associate
Members and then apply for Regular Membership after meeting
the criteria of a certain grade point average and completion of the
first year sequence of Biology. Dr. Gonzalez serves as the main
faculty mentor for this group, although all the Biology faculty work
to support the work of this very active organization. Tri-Beta also
contains a subgroup of members focused on pre-health
professions including medical, dental and physical therapy and
another on graduate school.
Undergraduate Research (on or off-campus)
Many members of the Biology Department have research
programs dedicated to conducting research with students, both as
a teaching demonstration of scientific skills but also as part of the
process of scholarship. The scientific process clearly includes
presentation and peer review and we enjoy mentoring our students
1 of 5 3/24/26, 2:22 PM

--- Page 2 of 5 ---

Engagement Opportunitiesabout:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.southwestern.edu%2Fbiolo...
in these processes. In terms of writing and critical thinking,
collaborative research can result in some combination of the
following outcomes:
• Presentation of research (oral or poster presentations) at the
SU RCWS (see above) ;
• Research done with faculty may earn credit hours in the
Department of Biology;
• Presentation (oral or poster) at the Texas Academy of Science
meeting or other regional and/or national scientific meetings; and
• Eventual publication of a peer-reviewed scientific publication
Research options occur in different forms depending on the faculty.
Some faculty participate in a university-wide program of summer
research (SURF - Summer Undergraduate Research with Faculty)
while others create their own tailored arrangements. If interested in
the research process, start a conversation with individual
professors about their research programs:
• Dr. Erin Borbee, Marine Biodiversity and Ecology
• Dr. Stacie Brown , Molecular Microbiology
• Dr. Romi Burks , Aquatic and Molecular Ecology
• Dr. Martín Gonzalez , Molecular Microbiology
• Dr. Kim McArthur , Developmental Neuroscience
• Dr. Sunny Scobell, Physiology
• Dr. Max Taub, Human Genetics
• Dr. Maria Todd, Cancer Biology
2 of 5 3/24/26, 2:22 PM

--- Page 3 of 5 ---

Engagement Opportunitiesabout:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.southwestern.edu%2Fbiolo...
Off-campus Research (REUs and similar programs)
REU stands for Research Experiences for Undergraduates , a
signature program of the National Science Foundation which offers
several opportunities across the country. In addition, a number of
medical schools, study-abroad programs, research institutes, and
other universities offer REU-like independent research
opportunities for students. Students can learn more about these
opportunities by talking with faculty or following announcements
sent to the Biology list-serve (su-biology@southwestern.edu ).
SU Research and Creative Works Symposium (SU-RCWS)
An annual symposium modeled after a typical academic
conference where Southwestern students present the results of
their research and creative works.
Study Abroad
The Biology Department encourages as many of its students as
possible to study abroad and experience the global nature and
reach of science. The Office of Study Abroad and International
Student Services can serve as your first point of contact or you
can talk with your academic advisers. The Biology Department
Faculty have also assembled lists of programs in Biology and
Health Studies to help narrow the vast number of choices to
programs that work well with the Southwestern curriculum and our
students.
Check them out:
Pre-vetted Biology Study Abroad Options
3 of 5 3/24/26, 2:22 PM

--- Page 4 of 5 ---

Engagement Opportunitiesabout:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.southwestern.edu%2Fbiolo...
Pre-vetted Health Studies Study Abroad Options
Internships
Students can incorporate internships for credit as part of their
Biology degree with the permission of the department. Inquire with
Dr. Romi Burks and check out the additional resources provided by
the Office of Internships within the Center for Integrated Learning.
Pre-Med and Allied Health Professional Programs
The Pre-Med and Allied Health Committee may have a further list
of additional programs that include shadowing medical professions
or volunteering with local hospitals. Email Dr. Kim McArthur and/or
check out all the resources available for pre-med, dental, vet, PA,
PT, Nurse Practitioner and more on their website.
King Creativity Grants
Several biology majors have been successful in obtaining King
Creativity Grants to support their interests outside the classroom.
The King Creativity Fund empowers students to pursue projects
that stretch disciplinary boundaries or combine traditional
academic methods with new approaches. In a recent project
Zooxanthellae and Aliivibrio fischeri: An Affinity Analysis on
the Macro Scale, Murphy Jacobie ’27 set out to discover if coral
reef bleaching can be reversed. Jacobie tested to see if the
attraction between zooxanthellae, the algae found on corals, and
Aliivibrio fischeri, a bioluminescent bacteria, could exist on a
macroscopic scale. Other microbiologists created a portfolio of
4 of 5 3/24/26, 2:22 PM

--- Page 5 of 5 ---

Engagement Opportunitiesabout:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.southwestern.edu%2Fbiolo...
microscope images, more biologists explored art and science and
our environmentalists set out doing research on the health of the
San Gabriel River .
Civic Engagement
Many of our biology students have participated in programs
associated with local schools or after school programs. Some
biology courses are taught with a community-engaged learning
component. More information about these learning opportunities
can be found through the Office of Community-Engaged Learning.
5 of 5 3/24/26, 2:22 PM