--- Page 1 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/biology/notable-faculty-student-achieve...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
BBIIOOLLOOGGYY
Notable Faculty & Student Achievements
2025 Faculty Awards: Dr. Kim McArthur was awarded the Junior Faculty
Teaching Award, and Dr. Maria Todd was awarded the Faculty Advising
Award.
FFeebbrruuaarryy 22002266
Professor of Psychology Fay Guarraci, along with several students and alumni, published
an article titled “Chronic testosterone enanthate or estradiol benzoate affects sexual
behavior and motivation in Long-Evans rats tested for partner preference” in Physiology and
Behavior. This work was supported by summer research programs (SCOPE ’24 and SURF
’25) and conducted by psychology and biology capstone students. Raylee Bowling ’27 is
first author, followed by Chance Bauer ’26, Iva Irabor-Ighedosa ’26, Kai Wilson ’26, and
Anna Pavlova ’28. Alumna Alex Avila ’25 and visiting scholar Kole Petersen, a student from
Colorado College, were also co-authors. This project tested a model of gender-affirming
hormone therapy in an animal model.
1 of 27 3/24/26, 2:23 PM

--- Page 2 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/biology/notable-faculty-student-achieve...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
NNoovveemmbbeerr 22002255
Associate Professor of Psychology Carin Perilloux, along with psychology graduate
Madeline Bollinger ’24, psychology graduate and Coordinator of the Professor John Score
Learning Commons Laurel Mulkey ’24, and biology graduate Vy Nguyen ’23, have
published a paper titled “Hooked on a feeling: Psychological and physiological responses to
ASMR triggers” in the journal Technology, Mind, and Behavior. This article is based on three
years worth of SCOPE projects and is published with open access here.
Assistant Professor of Biology Sunny Scobell gave an invited seminar to the Department of
Biology at Texas State University, titled “The physiological regulation and evolution of male
pregnancy,” on November 14.
Assistant Professor of Biology Sunny Scobell gave an invited seminar to the Biology
Department at Trinity University, titled “The mysterious male brood pouch: Structure and
function of male pregnancy in seahorses and pipefish,” on November 10.
Professor of Anthropology Melissa Johnson and her Summer 2025 SURF students
2 of 27 3/24/26, 2:23 PM

--- Page 3 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/biology/notable-faculty-student-achieve...
presented their findings at the 13th Race, Ethnicity and Place conference in Albuquerque,
NM from November 5–7. Their panel was titled “Race, Gender, Slavery and Freedom in
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Everyday Life on the British coast of Central America, 1750-1830.” Dr. Johnson and three
students presented their papers: anthropology and feminist studies double major Dina
Gaxiola ’28 presented “The Case of Jane Trapp: Race, Gender, Slavery and Freedom in
Early British Central America,” psychology and sociology double major Sophia Hernandez
’28 presented “From Enslavement to Influence; Gendered Agency, Racial Boundaries, and
the Story of Ariadne Broaster,” Dr. Johnson presented “Living across lines of freedom in the
early history of Belize: The origins of the Bonner family,” and biology and environmental
studies double major Shae Whitney ’28 presented “Maria Middleton – Slave, Criminal,
Transported Convict: Understanding Gender, Race and Freedom across the British Colonial
World.” The students may have been the only undergraduates presenting papers at this
conference. The papers were well received, with one audience member sharing that this
was the most interesting panel they had attended.
OOccttoobbeerr 22002255
Supported by funds from the Garey Chair in Biology and the Mellon Grant for Publicly
Engaged Scholarship, Professor of Biology Romi Burks gave a talk and tasting at the
Northwest Chocolate Festival, titled “Get Origin(al): Educated by chocolate in Brazil and
Peru.” Dr. Burks shared her professional development experiences abroad this summer
learning about supply chains and post-harvest practices in two important origin countries
that grow Theobroma cacao, the tree that provides the beans from which we make
chocolate. She also participated in the “Unconference,” a networking opportunity for
professionals in the chocolate industry.
3 of 27 3/24/26, 2:23 PM

--- Page 4 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/biology/notable-faculty-student-achieve...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
JJuunnee 22002255
Alumna Esmeralda Rosas ’24 recently published her biology capstone as part of an applied
journal section called “Management in Practice” within the journal Management of
Biological Invasions. Co-authored with fellow apple snail lab alumna, Cynthia Bashara ’23,
this study reports a four-year monitoring effort with Austin community member David
Christie that resulted in a local eradication of invasive snails. Success stories in invasion
biology often get overlooked, but this paper, titled “Winning the shell game: environmental
DNA (eDNA) confirms local control of the invasive apple snail, Pomacea maculata” provides
a template for others to follow. A downloadable PDF of the paper is available here. Made
possible by devoting time during a recent sabbatical, this publication represents the second
outcome of the ongoing collaboration between Professor and Garey Chair in Biology Romi
Burks, and Matthew Barnes ’06, Associate Professor at Texas Tech University.
MMaayy 22002255
Kinesiology alumni Corban Ruiz’s ’23 “fun” COVID student research project turned
independent study with Associate Professor of Kinesiology Ed Merritt, which morphed into
a research assistantship data management role for biology major and kinesiology
minor Iliana Hernandez ’27, was published in the International Journal of Exercise Science.
The paper, “Age of Anaerobic, Aerobic, and Skill-Based Olympic Athletes 1988 – 2024”
provides insight into the development of and, potentially, the onset of age-related declines
in human metabolic systems. The good news for most of us is that there has been at least
one 65-year old who has competed in the Olympics since 1988 in a non-equestrian event!
The paper can be read here.
4 of 27 3/24/26, 2:23 PM

--- Page 5 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/biology/notable-faculty-student-achieve...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Biology major and kinesiology minor Iliana Hernandez ’27 presented research findings from
the recently completed clinical trial “Exercise Training Adaptations in Middle-Aged Adults
With and Without Post-Exercise Peanut Consumption” at the American Physiology Summit
in Baltimore, MD on April 26. Co-authors on the study are kinesiology majorErica Otto ’25,
Southwestern alumni Matthew Bierwirth ’24, Rachel Chiella ’24, Barrett Knapp ’24,
and Zachary Moon ’24, and Associate Professor of Kinesiology Ed Merritt.
MMaarrcchh 22002255
The weekend of February 28 – March 2 brought scientists from all over Texas to McLennan
Community College and Baylor University in Waco, for the 145th Texas Academy of
Sciences meeting. Ten students represented the Biology Department, including Gage
Mallo ’26, Johun Reyes ’26, Annika Tracy ’25, Murphy Jacobie ’27, Madeleine
Thomas ’26, Kylie Allemeier ’26, Katelin Pilarski ’26, Sarah Berver ’26, Alanna
Guerrero ’25 and Jordan Emerson ’27.
Based on her collaboration with Assistant Professor of Biology Kim McArthur, Annika gave
a talk, titled “Location-independent axon pathfinding in the hindbrain of larval zebrafish,”
that earned the first place undergraduate talk award for the neuroscience section.
Madeleine presented a poster with her research mentor, Assistant Professor of
Biology Sunny Scobell, titled “A morphological analysis of the dopaminergic pathway in the
brain of a male pregnant pipefish.” Dr. Scobell also mentored Jennifer Smalz, a student from
her previous institution (UD: The University of Dallas), who gave a talk titled “Investigating
male pregnancy in Gulf Pipefish using scanning electron microscopy to describe the
anatomy of the brood pouch over the reproductive cycle.” Ms. Smalz’ talk earned the first
place undergraduate award in the systematics and evolutionary biology section. Within that
5 of 27 3/24/26, 2:23 PM

--- Page 6 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/biology/notable-faculty-student-achieve...
section, Dr. Scobell also gave two presentations, one co-authored with UD student Farah
Atarah, titled “Brood pouch anatomy throughout the course of male pregnancy in Gulf
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Pipefish,” and another focusing on her endocrinology, titled an “Investigation of the role of
prolactin during reproduction in a fish with male pregnancy.”
Murphie presented a microbiology focused poster, titled “An affinity analysis of Aliivibrio
fischeri and zooxanthellae” with the mentorship of Director of First Year Biology
Laboratories Stacie Brown.
Working with Chair and Garey Professor of Biology Romi Burks, Gage presented a poster,
titled “You better Belize they’re different: Phylogenetic analysis and species identification of
native apple snails in Belize,” that garnered a first place best poster award in the
systematics and evolutionary biology section. His poster co-author Johun secured first
place in the Undergraduate Research Award Competition, complete with a $2,000 prize to
continue the work, with his proposal, “Beneath Belizean waters: Discovering diversity of
native apple snails in northern and southern Belize.”
Also from the Burks lab, Kylie, Sarah, and Katelin shared their recent troubleshooting efforts
in the lab in a poster titled “Extraordinary extraction efforts: Experiments to enhance DNA
extraction for tissues of apple snails of conservation interests” that also used collections
from Belize that occurred as part of the 2024 study abroad experience.
Dr. Burks also gave an oral presentation in the science education section about the recent
undergraduate research experience that she developed in BIO50-222, Methods in Ecology
and Evolution. Her talk, titled “Methodological microplastics: Development of an
undergraduate CURE to quantify abundance of microplastic fibers in a local stream,” came
out of conversations with microplastics expert Andre Felton from the University of Texas at
San Antonio.
JJaannuuaarryy 22002255
6 of 27 3/24/26, 2:23 PM

--- Page 7 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/biology/notable-faculty-student-achieve...
Visiting Assistant Professor of Biology Jeffrey K. McCrary, along with two co-authors from
Universidad Nacional Autónoma de Nicaragua and one co-author from Universidad
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Autónoma de Barcelona, published the research article, “Riqueza, abundancia y diversidad
de aves en ecosistemas antropizados y no antropizados del corredor seco nicaragüense,” in
a special edition of Revista Científica Estelí in December. He also presented a poster titled
“Golden-cheeked Warbler habitat preferences in Nicaraguan Highlands,” in conjunction with
co-authors representing Universidad Nacional Autónoma de Nicaragua, Université de
Sherbrooke, and Virginia Tech, at the Texas Conservation Symposium in January.
NNoovveemmbbeerr 22002244
Assistant Professor of Biology Kim McArthur authored a spotlight article recently accepted
in the journal Trends in Neurosciences. The article, titled “Cranial motor neuron input
specificity refined by activity,” provides a critical analysis of a recent primary research
article in her area of expertise (Kaneko et al. 2024, “Position-independent functional
refinement within the vagus motor topographic map”). The spotlight and research article
both address the “big picture” question of how motor neurons in the vertebrate hindbrain
receive appropriate synaptic inputs during early motor circuit development.
OOccttoobbeerr 22002244
Assistant Professor of Biology Kim McArthur co-authored a research article recently
7 of 27 3/24/26, 2:23 PM

--- Page 8 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/biology/notable-faculty-student-achieve...
accepted in the Journal of Comparative Neurology, presenting the results of her Spring
2023 sabbatical (funded, in part, by the Sam Taylor Fellowship). The article, titled
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
“Structure and topography of facial branchiomotor neuron dendrites in larval zebrafish
(Danio rerio),” uses a combination of single-cell labeling, in vivo fluorescence microscopic
imaging, and 3D tracing to provide evidence that early synaptic input to motor neurons may
be determined by the relative location of their dendrites in the developing hindbrain. This
work contributes to our growing understanding of the importance of early spatial
organization for the development of neural circuits.
SSeepptteemmbbeerr 22002244
Buoyed by the momentum built on sabbatical, Garey Chair of Biology Romi Burks continued
her work on the intersection between chocolate and liberal arts education by sharing her
knowledge as the featured STEM kick-off speaker at Schreiner University on September 4
with a talk titled “Chocolate Covered Science: Connect what you love to eat with what you
love to study.” Following that event, Burks attended the Dallas Chocolate Festival on
September 7, where she contributed to a panel discussion on the crisis in the chocolate
industry, along with entrepreneur Kate Weiser of Kate Weiser Chocolates and Jimmy
Steward of Guittard Chocolate. Afterwards, Burks gave a solo presentation titled “Educated
by Chocolate: How to build your chocolate knowledge one bite at a time.” Burks has also
been invited to give this talk again at the Northwest Chocolate Festival, along with a second
presentation titled “Separating Fact from Fiction in the Science of Chocolate.” These
lectures will take place the first weekend of October.
8 of 27 3/24/26, 2:23 PM

--- Page 9 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/biology/notable-faculty-student-achieve...
Supported by a sabbatical leave, Garey Chair of Biology Romi Burks recently published the
first paper out of the lab on environmental DNA in the journal Management of Biological
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Invasions, in collaboration with several undergraduate researchers and colleagues. The
paper, titled “Snail slime in real time: Challenges in predicting the relationship between
environmental DNA and apple snail biomass,” describes how extrapolations can fail between
snail abundance and the amount of genetic material produced by apple snails under cold
conditions. The results have implications for estimating the size of non-native invasive
populations. Student co-authors include Cassidy Reynolds ’24, Esmeralda
Rosas ’24, Cynthia Bashara ’23, and Lillian Dolapchiev ’23, along with alumni collaborator
Dr. Matthew Barnes ’06 from Texas Tech University and Dr. Chris Jerde from UC Santa
Barbara, who provided assistance in data analysis. The open access paper can be
read here, as #6 in the table of contents of the journal issue.
AAuugguusstt 22002244
Professor Emeritus of Biology Ben Pierce was appointed to the Bell and Coryell Counties
Biological Advisory Team, which will assist in the development of a regional habitat
conservation plan for these two Texas counties.
AApprriill 22002244
On April 25, Visiting Assistant Professor of Biology Kyle Wilhite and his Ph.D. advisor, Mike
9 of 27 3/24/26, 2:23 PM

--- Page 10 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/biology/notable-faculty-student-achieve...
Ryan, published a paper in Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiologytitled “Condition
dependence in the sexual communication system of the túngara frog.”
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
In 2023, Professor of Biology Romi Burks contributed to a United States Department of
Agriculture - Agriculture Research Services (USDA-ARS) effort to communicate the latest
science on the invasive apple snail that occurs across the southeastern region of the United
States. The content of that Apple Snail Workshop, entitled “Apple Snails: Discussion of past
problems and future solutions for an emerging pest in the United States agriculture/
aquaculture,” now appears published in World Aquaculture, the magazine for the World
Aquaculture Society. Recent Burks’ Lab researcher, now professional scientific
illustrator, Lauren Muskara ’21 provided the photograph of an apple snail laying eggs on a
pylon that the authors chose for the cover of the article. The full article can be read on page
46 here.
JJaannuuaarryy 22002244
Visiting Assistant Professor of Biology Kyle Wilhite published a paper titled “Ripple effects
in a communication network: anti-eavesdropper defense elicits elaborated sexual signals in
rival males” in the journal Proceedings of the Royal Society B on December 20, 2023. This
research was a multi-national collaboration with Purdue University, The University of Texas
at Austin, VU University in the Netherlands, the University of Tennessee Knoxville, the
University of Antioquia in Colombia, and The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute.
10 of 27 3/24/26, 2:23 PM

--- Page 11 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/biology/notable-faculty-student-achieve...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Assistant Professor of Biology Kim McArthur presented a virtual poster at the annual
meeting of the Society for Neuroscience in November 2023. Her poster, titled “Mapping the
dendrite topography of facial motor neurons in larval zebrafish,” presented preliminary
results from her sabbatical research, gathering evidence to test the hypothesis that the
relative positioning of a neuron’s dendrites can determine which synaptic inputs that neuron
receives– thereby determining its functional role in a neural circuit.
OOccttoobbeerr 22002233
Professor of Biology Romi Burks continues “chocolating” her way through her sabbatical.
On October 6th, she gave an invited talk at the Northwest Chocolate Festival in Seattle, the
largest professional gathering of fine chocolate professionals. Taken place on the Fine
Chocolate Industry Association’s stage, the talk “you say cacao, I say cocoa” chronicles her
work on and vision for the Fine Chocolate Glossary project. Burks left for 3 weeks in
London, where she will judge within the UK’s premier organization, The Academy of
Chocolate. All of this travel and networking will contribute to her book project “Journey into
Chocolate,” coauthored by Indi Chocolate owner and entrepreneur Erin Andrews.
11 of 27 3/24/26, 2:23 PM

--- Page 12 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/biology/notable-faculty-student-achieve...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
SSeepptteemmbbeerr 22002233
Professor of Biology Romi Burks and chocolate pedagogy enthusiast gave two invited
presentations this past weekend at the Dallas Chocolate Festival, which featured a theme of
“The Dream of Chocolate.” On Saturday, Burks spoke about her work as the Chair of the
Fine Chocolate Glossary project within the Fine Chocolate Industry Association with a title -
Chocolate “Definitions” - the dream of developing a common language. On Sunday, Burks
stepped 48 guests through “How to Taste Chocolate like a Competition Judge” talk where
participants learned about criteria for fine chocolate. When not giving presentations, Burks
staffed a booth to talk to the attendees about the Fine Chocolate Glossary. Pictures can be
found on her ProfRomi Instagram and other social media platforms.
AAuugguusstt 22002233
Assistant Professor of Biology Jennie DeMarco attended and presented her research on
using compost and native seeding to restore ski slopes and sequester soil carbon at the
2023 Ski Conservation Summit held at Copper Mountain Ski Resort in Frisco, Colorado. Also
in attendance werestudents Logan Antone ’24, Cooper Phillips ’24,
Blaine Ten Wolde ’25, Hailey Vickich ’25, and Olivia Johnson ’26. The summit and our
research were covered in several media outlets: 5280 Denver’s Mile High Magazine, CBS
Colorado, Summit Daily, and SAM Magazine.
12 of 27 3/24/26, 2:23 PM

--- Page 13 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/biology/notable-faculty-student-achieve...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
JJuullyy 22002233
Professor of Biology Max Taub and Marcelo Salazar-Barragan ’23 published the paper “The
Effects of Elexacaftor, Tezacaftor, and Ivacaftor (ETI) on Blood Glucose in Patients With
Cystic Fibrosis: A Systematic Review” in the Cureus Journal of Medical Science.
Professor of Biology Romi Burks attended the Fine Chocolate Industry Association meeting
in New York City on Saturday, June 24th. She led a “Lunch and Learn” interactive
presentation on the Fine Chocolate Glossary project during that time. Visual art major Ryan
Tanner ’25 designed the new logo for the glossary and helped craft two display posters as
part of her summer internship. The FCIA session titled “Chocolate: I do not think it means
what you think it means” plays off the famous quote about the inconceivable from The
Princess Bride. Drawing on that, Burks wrote a blog post about her thoughts on taking over
the leadership of the Glossary project. This open-access resource recruits professionals in
the chocolate industry to author entries based on their experience and research, and each
entry can then receive feedback and revision. The project seeks to establish a common
language within the world of fine chocolate. Being part of the project and networking within
the chocolate industry contributes directly to Burks’ sabbatical plans to write a mainstream
book on chocolate.
AApprriill 22002233
13 of 27 3/24/26, 2:23 PM

--- Page 14 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/biology/notable-faculty-student-achieve...
Professor of Biochemistry and Garey Chair of Chemistry Maha Zewail-Foote and Associate
Professor of Biology Martín Gonzalez published an article in the Journal of Chemical
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Education where they describe the development and implementation of a unique
undergraduate research-based laboratory course that cultivates an inclusive and supportive
learning community and helps students develop a sense of belonging through mentorship
and peer-to-peer learning. The course is centered on a new framework they developed
called crisscrossing laboratory experiences (CCLE), where first-year students were placed
into two interdisciplinary research cohorts. Halfway through the course, the cohorts
swapped research projects to establish reciprocal peer learning partnerships allowing
students to be both learners and teachers.
FFeebbuurraarryy 22002233
Professor of Biology Romi Burks engaged in a number of off-campus presentations in
February about her research on apple snails and environmental DNA and also her passion
and philosophy of teaching through chocolate. The chocolate events occurred in person,
while the science talks occurred as part of a federal government-sponsored workshop and
a Texas-based science podcast. On February 12: Not Just a Casual Love Affair: How to
Cultivate a Real Relationship with Chocolate; Lecture and tasting at the Rockport Center for
the Arts, February 17: Biology & Chemistry of Chocolate; Lecture and tasting for Westwood
High School Enrichment Program, February 21st: Now You See Them, Now You Don’t?
Using eDNA to confirm removal of invasive snails by local agency; APHIS-USDA 2023 Apple
Snail Workshop, and February 24th: Science Stories Podcast (Live on community radio
station KZSM) with Dr. Mateo Garcia, a postdoctoral researcher at Texas State University.
14 of 27 3/24/26, 2:23 PM

--- Page 15 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/biology/notable-faculty-student-achieve...
Assistant Professor of Biology Jennie DeMarco recently had a research paper published in
the journal Agriculture, Ecosystems & Environment titled “Composted biosolids for
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
enhanced soil organic carbon and water storage in perennial pastures in Colorado”. This
work was part of Dr. DeMarco’s former graduate student’s thesis and focuses on how we
can manage pasture lands to sequester carbon into the soil as a climate change mitigation
strategy. The paper can be accessed here.
Assistant Professor of Biology Kim McArthur, with co-authors Emma Astad ’21, Emmett
Griffin-Baldwin ’22, Bria Tovar ’22, and Tori Tovar ’22, wrote a research article recently
accepted in the Journal of Comparative Neurology. The article, entitled “Early development
of respiratory motor circuits in larval zebrafish (Danio rerio),” uses a combination of
behavioral analysis and functional calcium imaging to reveal the developmental time course
of early synaptic inputs from respiratory, central pattern-generating circuits to the cranial
motor neurons that generate coordinated breathing behaviors. This work provides critical
foundational information about the development of an emerging model circuit in
developmental neurobiology, setting the stage for future work probing the mechanisms of
synapse development.
NNoovveemmbbeerr 22002222
Professor of Biology and 2022 London Faculty Romi Burks gave an invited presentation on
October 22 on chocolate education entitled “Making the word chocolate mean more to
everyone” at the first edition of the Latin American International Festival of Chocolate and
Cocoa in Europe. This event took place in partnership with The Chocolate Story Museum
15 of 27 3/24/26, 2:23 PM

--- Page 16 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/biology/notable-faculty-student-achieve...
and WOW/Vinte Vinte at their location in the cultural district in Vila Nova de Gaia in Porto,
Portugal. During the following week (October 26-27), Burks participated as an invited judge
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
for filled chocolates at The Academy of Chocolate awards back in London.
Professors of Biology Maria Cuevas and Maria Todd published a paper titled “Microarray
Analysis Reveals Overexpression of both Integral Membrane and Cytosolic Tight Junction
Genes in Endometrial Cancer Cell Lines” in the Journal of Cancer. The study reports for the
first time a comprehensive analysis of 84 tight junction network genes in a panel of
endometrial cancer cell lines. The authors identified three genes that were consistently
deregulated in endometrial cancer, thus providing potential candidates for the development
of both diagnostic markers and novel therapeutic approaches for endometrial cancer.
OOccttoobbeerr 22002222
Assistant Professor of Biology Jennie DeMarco was an invited speaker at the September
23 Baylor University Department of Biology Seminar, where she presented her research
titled “From Transect to Landscape: Evaluating the Role of Wet Meadow Restoration in
Climate Change Mitigation and Resilience
16 of 27 3/24/26, 2:23 PM

--- Page 17 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/biology/notable-faculty-student-achieve...
Assistant Professor of Biology Jennie DeMarco was awarded a research grant in the
amount of $40,000 from the Bureau of Land Management for her proposed research titled
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
“Nature Climate Solutions: Evaluating the Role of Wet Meadow Restoration in Climate
Change Mitigation and Resilience.”
SSeepptteemmbbeerr 22002222
Professor of Biology and Lillian Nelson Pratt Chair Ben Pierce published a paper titled
“Relative Tail Width as an Indicator of Body Condition in Central Texas Eurycea
Salamanders” in the August 2022 issue of Herpetological Conservation and Biology.
AAuugguusstt 22002222
A new research project by Assistant Professor of Biology Jennie DeMarco was featured in
the newspaper Summit Daily, which serves the Summit County, Colorado, area. The article,
titled “Copper Mountain Resort Begins 10-Year Carbon Sequestration Study,” highlighted the
collaboration between, the Copper Mountain ski resort, and Peak
Ecological Services, LLC, to investigate the impact of ski slope restoration as a nature
climate solution.
17 of 27 3/24/26, 2:23 PM

--- Page 18 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/biology/notable-faculty-student-achieve...
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Assistant Professor of Biology Jennie DeMarco and Southwestern students Gabrielle
Garza ’22, Guadalupe Sanchez ’23, and Christine Vanginault ’23 attended a conservation
summit held July 27 at the Copper Mountain ski resort in Colorado. DeMarco and her
collaborators—Jeff Grasser, efficiency manager at Copper Mountain, and Rea Orthner,
botanist/ecologist with Peak Ecological Services, LLC—presented their research project
titled “Ski Slope Restoration as a Nature Climate Solution.” The goal of the summit was to
enhance collaboration and provide an opportunity for resort operators, land managers, and
researchers to share innovative methods for enhancing the conservation of local
ecosystems impacted by recreation.
MMaayy 22002222
Assistant Professor of Biology Jennie DeMarcowas awarded $14,580 from the Upper
Gunnison River Water Conservation District for her grant proposal titled “From Transect to
Landscape: Investigating the Role of Remote Sensing Tools to Monitor Soil Moisture with
Wet Meadow Restoration in the Gunnison Valley.”
Assistant Professor of Biology Jennie DeMarco presented her research titled “Evaluating
the Carbon Sequestration Potential and Drought Resilience with Wet Meadow Restoration
under a Changing Climate” at the High Altitude Revegetation Committee and Society for
Ecological Restoration–Rocky Mountains Chapter 2022 Conference held April 13–14, in Fort
18 of 27 3/24/26, 2:23 PM

--- Page 19 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/biology/notable-faculty-student-achieve...
Collins, Colorado.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
AApprriill 22002222
Assistant Professor of Biology Kim McArthur gave an invited virtual presentation on equity
in grading to the Union College (Schenectady, New York) faculty on March 22. The
presentation, titled “Rethinking Traditional Grading, Working Towards Equity,” provided a
framework for considering the impact of traditional grading practices on student equity,
with suggestions for reconsidering and fully aligning assessment practices with course
learning objectives.
MMaarrcchh 22002222
During the last weekend of February, Professor of Biology Romi Burks and Professor of
Biology Ben Pierce took eight biologists to the Texas Academy of Sciences (TAS) Annual
Meeting in Clear Lake, Texas. Southwestern student contributions included two posters and
two oral presentations as well as an exciting second-place team finish in “Science
Jeopardy.”
• Two of Pierce’s research students, Sydney Cole ’23 and Claire Bason ’23, won
second place for best undergraduate poster in the terrestrial ecology and
19 of 27 3/24/26, 2:23 PM

--- Page 20 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/biology/notable-faculty-student-achieve...
management section for their work on chirping frogs and mites titled “Chigger Mite
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Prevalence in Texas Chirping Frogs Based on Citizen Science.” Additional student
coauthors included Emma Kesterson ’23 and Gina Rameriz ’23.
• In the freshwater science section, Lillian Dolapchiev ’23 gave a talk titled “Filter
Me … If You Can: Using Size Fractionation to Separate, Measure, and Determine the
Size of Pomacea maculataeDNA.” Her coauthors included Cynthia
Bashara ’23, Matthew Barnes ’06, and Burks. Dolapchiev earned first place for
best undergraduate oral presentation within the freshwater science section.
• In the same section, Bashara gave an oral presentation titled “Snail ( Pomacea
maculata ) Days of Summer: Associations Between Reproductive Output, Snail
Removal Efforts, and Environmental DNA (eDNA) Concentration,” which included
Dolapchiev, Barnes, Burks, and Chris Vaughn from the San Antonio River Authority
as coauthors. Bashara took the second place award in the category.
• Together, Bashara and Dolapchiev presented their specific research objectives
completed over the summer during SCOPE as a poster presentation titled “Stop
Escargo in San Antonio: Developing Best Methodology for Detecting Pomacea
maculataUsing Environmental DNA (eDNA).” This poster won second place for best
undergraduate poster in the freshwater science section.
• Two more research students of Burks, Kate Henderson ’25 and Abby White ’25,
also presented a poster in the freshwater science section titled “Keep Austin Snail-
Free: Ongoing Removal of Pomacea maculataand Evaluation by eDNA.” The poster
was coauthored by Bashara, Dolapchiev, and Dave Christie, who owns a home in
Austin that has been invaded by apple snails. Henderson and White put together
this poster based on just a semester of lab involvement.
• In addition to collaborating with Burks and coauthoring presentations with
Bashara and Dolapchiev, Barnes, an associate professor at Texas Tech University,
served as vice president of the academy and transitioned into his 2022–2023 role
as president-elect. He will oversee the program at next year’s TAS meeting at San
Angelo State University. His own undergraduate and graduate students from Texas
20 of 27 3/24/26, 2:23 PM

--- Page 21 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/biology/notable-faculty-student-achieve...
Tech also won a poster presentation and a research grant award, respectively.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
• Photos from the Awards Banquet can be seen on the TAS website.
FFeebbuurraarryy 22002222
Professor of Biology Romi Burks recently participated in a podcast called Conversations
About Cocoa where she discussed her educational journey to becoming a “chocolate
expert.” Host Lauren Heineck, a chocolate educator and moderator of the Facebook group
for chocolate professionals Well Tempered, spoke with Burks about her mission in
education, the chocolate industry, and how studying apple snails translates into
understanding more about the genetics of cacao (the plant from which chocolate comes)
and vice versa. You can access the podcast on Heineck’s website.
JJaannuuaarryy 22002222
Five Southwestern students had the opportunity to extend their coursework and research
experience beyond the classroom with poster presentations at the Texas Conservation
Symposium, which was cosponsored by Southwestern and the Williamson County
Conservation Foundation. The students all had the opportunity to interact with keynote
speaker Kelly Ramirez, assistant professor at the University of Texas at El Paso and
cofounder of 500 Women Scientists. Three of the presentations built on work the students
21 of 27 3/24/26, 2:23 PM

--- Page 22 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/biology/notable-faculty-student-achieve...
did during the fall 2021 Conservation Biology course taught by Professor of Biology Romi
Burks. These presentations, each of which delved into analyzing a particular Texas
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
ecoregion, included the following:
• Katherine Montgomery ’23: “The Blackland Prairies in 2050: Never Lost, Just Too
Often Forgotten”
• Lauren Wheat ’23: “Edwards Plateau 2050: Need for Increased Conservation of
Golden-cheeked Warbler and Black-capped Vireo Nesting Habitat”
• Nicole Ratjak ’22: “2050 at the Beach? Conservation Concerns for the Future of the
Texas Gulf Coast and Prairies Ecosystem”
In addition, two students mentored by Burks in the Molecular Aquatic Ecology Lab, Lillian
Dolapchiev ’23 and Cynthia Bashara ’23, presented their research from the 2021 SCOPE
program titled “Escar-go to San Antonio: Using Environmental DNA to Detect the Non-
native Invasive Species Pomacea maculata.”
Both Montgomery and Dolapchiev received recognition for outstanding
presentations. Michael Gervasi ’23 also had his poster, “Trans Pecos 2050,” on display. You
can view the ecoregions posters on Burks’s website.
Professor of Biology Ben Pierce and Assistant Professor of Biology Jennie DeMarco also
gave presentations on their research, “Relative Tail Width as an Indication of Body Condition
in Central Texas Euryceasalamanders” and “Invasive Species Litter Quality Alters Ecosystem
Function through Enhanced Litter Decomposition Independent of Drought Conditions,”
respectively. Pierce works each year to organize this symposium on behalf of Southwestern.
JJuullyy 22002211
Assistant Professor of Biology Kim McArthur presented her research at the annual meeting
of the Society for Developmental Biology on July 14, 2021. In her virtual poster, titled
“Behavioral Analysis of Respiratory Circuit Development in Larval Zebrafish,” McArthur
22 of 27 3/24/26, 2:23 PM

--- Page 23 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/biology/notable-faculty-student-achieve...
presented evidence that neural circuits in the brainstem that drive breathing behaviors
become functional very early in development, well before they are strictly necessary for
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
oxygen uptake. The larval zebrafish provides a unique opportunity to study the earliest
stages in neural circuit development as zebrafish develop outside of their mothers where
brain cells can be observed under the microscope using noninvasive methods.
AApprriill 22002211
Business and biology major Andrew Vergote ’21 gave a talk titled “Novel Bioinks: The
Gateway to Bioprinting Complex Biological Tissues” at the 2021 BBB South Central Virtual
Regional Convention. The talk resulted from research that Vergote completed with Assistant
Professor of Physics Cody Crosby in spring 2021. They plan to continue this research as a
funded Faculty–Student Project this summer.
AAuugguusstt 22002200
During spring and summer 2020, Professor of Biology Romi Burks was selected as a
member of a Faculty Mentoring Network (Make TRUBLE) within the Quantitative
Undergraduate Biology Education and Synthesis (QUBES) consortium. QUBES represents a
community of math and biology educators who share resources and methods for preparing
students to use quantitative approaches to tackle real, complex biological problems. The
FMN group Make TRUBLE, or Make Teaching with R to Undergraduates Be Less
23 of 27 3/24/26, 2:23 PM

--- Page 24 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/biology/notable-faculty-student-achieve...
Excruciating, helped Burks contribute to an ongoing emphasis in the natural sciences at
Southwestern to increase quantitative literacy and to use the open-source R language and
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
software with students. As part of teaching Methods in Ecology and Evolution and Ecology,
her lesson, which focuses on an element of statistical analysis, can be found online .
FFeebbuurraarryy 22002200
Biology major Rebecca Chastain ’20 presented a poster coauthored with Professor of
Biology Ben Pierce at the Texas Academy of Sciences meeting in Nacogdoches, TX,
February 28–29. Chastain’s poster on Texas chirping frogs won first place in the terrestrial
ecology section of the meeting.
JJaannuuaarryy 22002200
24 of 27 3/24/26, 2:23 PM

--- Page 25 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/biology/notable-faculty-student-achieve...
Professor of Biology and holder of the Lillian Nelson Pratt Chair Ben Pierce authored the
seventh edition of Genetics: A Conceptual Approach, which was published by Macmillan
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Learning. This new edition emphasizes active learning and updates the book with the latest
research in genetics.
25 of 27 3/24/26, 2:23 PM

--- Page 26 of 26 ---

Notable Faculty & Student Achievementshttps://www.southwestern.edu/biology/notable-faculty-student-achieve...
Professor of Biology Romi Burks, Lauren Muskara ’20, Esther Nyaberi ’21, and Kaitlin
Galassini ’21 attended the Texas Conservation Symposium, January 9–10th. Each gave a
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
presentation. All three students received financial acknowledgments of the quality of their
undergraduate research talks. The research on environmental DNA started during SCOPE
2018 and 2019 and will hopefully soon contribute to submissions to peer-reviewed journals.
Their talk titles included the following:
• “Looking at and beyond the Horizon: Studying Nonnative Apple Snails in Texas and
Diversity across the Globe” by Burks.
• “Indicating Invasion with eDNA: Detecting Apple Snails along Oyster Creek” by
Muskara, coauthored by Shellsea Miller ’20, Burks, and Matthew Barnes ‘’06, assistant
professor of natural resources management at Texas Tech University.
• “Old School or New School: Comparing the Efficiency of eDNA Sampling by Hand
and with the ANDe™ eDNA Backpack” by Galassini, coauthored by Nyaberi, Burks, and
Barnes.
• “Effect of the Degradation of eDNA in the Presence of Microplastics” by Nyaberi,
coauthored by Galassini, Burks, and Barnes.
Professor of BiologyBen Pierce, the Williamson County Conservation Fund (WCCF), andcosponsored the symposium, which attracted 118 attendees and
featured 25 talks.
Assistant Professor of BiologyKim McArthur was awarded the ADInstruments Educator
Scholarship to attend the CrawFly neurophysiology course at the University of the Incarnate
Word, January 9–12. This course provides intensive hands-on training for undergraduate
educators developing laboratory courses in neuroscience to encourage integration of high-
impact research experiences into the undergraduate curriculum. McArthur plans to develop
a course in neurobiology that can incorporate modules from this training course.
26 of 27 3/24/26, 2:23 PM