--- Page 1 of 4 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
SPANISH
Courses
Below you will find a list of our current or recent offerings. See the course catalog for descriptions
and updated information.
Beginning
The Spanish Department curriculum includes a level course sequence that fulfills SU’s
Intermediate
Language and Culture requirement; level courses designed for native speakers of
Spanish, heritage speakers of Spanish, and Spanish language learners who have completed the
Advanced
Language and Culture courses or who have placed out due to previous studies; and level
courses for majors, minors, native speakers, heritage speakers, and any students interested in
advancing their language and cultural proficiency and who have taken at least one 300-level
course.
BEGINNING INTERMEDIATE ADVANCED NATIVE SPEAKERS
The advanced level courses for majors, minors, and any students interested in advancing
their language and cultural proficiency and who have taken at least one 300-level course.
Note on course numbering: The 400 level courses are on literature from Spain; 500 level
courses are on literature from Latin American literature; 600 level courses focus on
culture; 700 level courses focus on linguistics; 900 level courses are capstone, tutorial,
independent study, internship and honors.
We also encourage all students who speak Spanish well to consider study abroad, since
the experience abroad will give you a life changing experience in addition to enhancing
your resume. Studying abroad will not only improve your Spanish skills but also allow you
to experience and learn about diverse cultures and topics from a non- American
perspective. Also, please consider seeking Paideia with Distinction since you have an

--- Page 2 of 4 ---

advanced proficiency in language. Talk to one of our faculty members for more ideas on
Mhoenwu to geSt einarvcohlved. Apply Visit Majors & Minors
SPA15-444 Hispano-American Literature Abroad
Contributes to International Studies and Latin American and Border Studies.
Prerequisite: One 200 or 300 level course. (H)
SPA15-454 Hispano-American Culture Abroad
Contributes to International Studies and Latin American and Border Studies.
Prerequisite: One 200 or 300 level course. (H)
SPA15-464 Linguistics Abroad
Contributes to International Studies. Prerequisite: One 200 or 300 level course. (H)
SPA15-534 Cultural Memory in Latin America
This interdisciplinary course will explore the construction of cultural memory-
collective meaningful understandings of the past and present in a given socio historical
context-in contemporary Latin America through the examination of symbolic systems,
practices, and cultural products: written and audiovisual narratives, music, memorials,
and popular traditions. This course is taught in Spanish. Contributes to International
Studies, Latin American and Border Studies, and Race and Ethnicity Studies/Allied
Course. Prerequisite: One 200 or 300 level course. (H) (WA) (SJ) (PJ)
SPA15-614 Topics in Hispanic Film
Interpretation and analysis of selected works by Spanish and/or Latin American
directors. May be repeated for credit with change in topic. This course is taught in
Spanish. Contributes to International Studies, and Latin American and Border Studies.
Prerequisite: One 200 or 300 level course. (H) (WA)
SPA15-624 Topics in Hispanic Literature

--- Page 3 of 4 ---

Interpretation and analysis of selected Iberian and/or Hispano-American works. This
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
course is taught in Spanish. May be repeated for credit with change in topic.
Contributes to International Studies, and Latin American and Border Studies.
Prerequisite: One 200 or 300 level course. (H) (WA)
SPA15-634 Topics in Hispanic Culture
Interpretation and analysis of selected cultural events and festivities, works of art
and/or literary works by Iberian and/or Hispano-American authors. This course is
taught in Spanish. May be repeated for credit with change in topic. Contributes to
International Studies, and Latin American and Border Studies. Prerequisite: One 200
or 300 level course. (H) (WA)
SPA15-644 Gender, Race and Nationalism in Spanish Cinema
Discussion of topics such as body, performance, migration and cultural exchange
through the viewing, discussing and analyzing of recent films from Spain and the
Mediterranean world. This course is taught in Spanish. Contributes to Feminist
Studies, International Studies, and Race and Ethnicity Studies/Allied Course.
Prerequisite: One 200 or 300 level course. (WA) (H)
SPA15-654 Citizenship & Conflict Colombian Cinema
Interpretation and analysis of contemporary Colombian films that expose the complex
relation between citizenship, state practices and insurgent forces. Contributes to Race
and Ethnicity Studies, and to Latin American and Border Studies. Prerequisite: One
300 level course. (SJ) (IP) (WA) (H)
SPA15-714 Spanish Sociolinguistics
Study of the use of the Spanish language in its social context with analysis of variations
that occur over geographic, class, gender, racial, and educational lines. Focus on
current issues in sociolinguistics as well as the field's main findings, approaches, and
research methodologies. This course is taught in Spanish. Contributes to Race and
Ethnicity Studies/Allied Course. Prerequisite: One 200 or 300 level course. (H)
SPA15-724 Spanish Phonetics and Phonology

--- Page 4 of 4 ---

Study of the theoretical concepts and analytical tools used to describe and categorize
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
sounds in natural languages, focusing specifically on the sound system of Spanish.
This course is taught in Spanish. Contributes to Health Studies and Neuroscience.
Prerequisite: One 200 or 300 level course. (H)
SPA15-734 Spanish in the United States
Study of the use of the Spanish language in the United States, focusing primarily on
linguistic phenomena evidenced in the various speech communities, as well as the
social, historical, political, and educational forces that influence Spanish language use,
maintenance, and Spanish/English bilingualism. This course is taught in Spanish.
Contributes to Latin American and Border Studies and Race and Ethnicity
Studies/Group-Theme Course. Prerequisite: One 200 or 300 level course. (WA) (H)
GEORGETOWN, TEXAS
512.863.6511
CONTACT