--- Page 1 of 3 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
SPANISH
Courses
Below you will find a list of our current or recent offerings. See the course catalog for descriptions
and updated information.
Beginning
The Spanish Department curriculum includes a level course sequence that fulfills SU’s
Intermediate
Language and Culture requirement; level courses designed for native speakers of
Spanish, heritage speakers of Spanish, and Spanish language learners who have completed the
Advanced
Language and Culture courses or who have placed out due to previous studies; and level
courses for majors, minors, native speakers, heritage speakers, and any students interested in
advancing their language and cultural proficiency and who have taken at least one 300-level
course.
BEGINNING INTERMEDIATE ADVANCED NATIVE SPEAKERS
The beginning level Spanish course sequence fulfills SU’s Language and Culture
requirement.
Spanish 1 is offered fall, spring, and summer term.
Spanish 2 and 3 are offered fall, spring, summer term, and in a summer study
abroad program.
A placement test taken before beginning coursework at Southwestern helps determine
which level in the language sequence will provide the appropriate challenge when getting
started. Students who have not placed out of Southwestern’s third semester language
proficiency requirement must begin language study at the level of placement, and take the
next courses from -144, -154 and -164 sequentially. Students must earn a grade of C- or
better to continue within this sequence.

--- Page 2 of 3 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
SPA15-144 Spanish I: Language and Culture
Introduction to the language. Skills development in listening, speaking, writing,
reading and cultural study. Contingent on placement exam results and language
background. (Fall,Spring)
SPA15-154 Spanish II: Lang & Culture
Skills development in listening, speaking, writing, reading and cultural study. Also
offered as part of SU's summer study abroad program . Prerequisite: Spanish 15-144
or equivalent placement. (Fall, Spring, Summer)
SPA15-164 Spanish III: Lang & Culture
Intermediate course on Spanish language and culture with emphasis on listening,
speaking, reading and writing. Continued practice in the target language. Also offered
as part of SU's summer study abroad program. Prerequisite: Spanish 15-154 or
equivalent placement. An exit interview/examination is required to satisfy course
requirements. (Fall, Spring, Summer)

--- Page 3 of 3 ---

GEORGETOWN, TEXAS
512.863.6511
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
CONTACT