--- Page 1 of 3 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
SPANISH
Courses
Below you will find a list of our current or recent offerings. See the course catalog for descriptions
and updated information.
Beginning
The Spanish Department curriculum includes a level course sequence that fulfills SU’s
Intermediate
Language and Culture requirement; level courses designed for native speakers of
Spanish, heritage speakers of Spanish, and Spanish language learners who have completed the
Advanced
Language and Culture courses or who have placed out due to previous studies; and level
courses for majors, minors, native speakers, heritage speakers, and any students interested in
advancing their language and cultural proficiency and who have taken at least one 300-level
course.
BEGINNING INTERMEDIATE ADVANCED NATIVE SPEAKERS
The intermediate level courses are designed for native speakers of Spanish, Heritage
speakers of Spanish, and Spanish language learners who have completed the Language
and Culture courses or who have placed out due to previous studies.
Please visit the Office of Intercultural Learning for information about our Intermediate
level summer study abroad program as well as other study abroad options.
SPA15-214 Written and Oral Expression
An intermediate level course designed to prepare students for advancing their studies
in Spanish by improving the students' skills in oral and written expression, while

--- Page 2 of 3 ---

furthering their development in oral and written comprehension. The goal of this class
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
is to increase students' self-confidence in using the language and in controlling
complex grammatical aspects, with special emphasis placed on the use of already-
learned grammatical structures. This course is taught in Spanish. Contributes to
International Studies, and Latin American and Border Studies. Prerequisite: Spanish
15-164, equivalent placement, or permission of instructor (WA) (H)
SPA15-314 Conversation in Context
An intermediate level course focused on conversational and grammatical skills as well
as cultural aspects of the study abroad country. Offered during the summers in SU
Summer Study Abroad programs. Prerequisite: Spanish 15-164 or equivalent. (H)
SPA15-334 Conversation Through Hispanic Cinema
n intermediate level course designed to improve conversational, written, and
presentational Spanish skills through the discussion of movies from around the
Spanish-speaking world. This course is designed for students who do not feel
confident speaking or writing formally about diverse socio-cultural topics in Spanish.
Contributes to International Studies, and Latin American and Border Studies.
Prerequisite: Spanish 15-164, or equivalent placement, or permission of instructor.
(WA) (H) (Fall, Spring)
SPA15-344 Introduction to Literary Studies
An intermediate-level course designed to introduce students to the analysis of literary
works and to develop their own appreciation of literature. This course provides the
thematic and technical framework to explore a variety of genres, and studies literature
as a reflection of life and as a means to advance language acquisition. Contributes to
Latin American and Border Studies. Prerequisite: Spanish 15-164, or equivalent
placement, or permission of instructor. (WA) (H)
SPA15-354 Cultures & Communities of Latin America
Exploration of Latin American cultures incorporating a variety of materials and
approaches, such as geography, history, architecture, literature, music, art and

--- Page 3 of 3 ---

religion. This course has a community-engaged learning component when taught on
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
campus. Also offered as part of SU's advanced Spanish summer study abroad
program to Latin America offered in even-numbered years. This course is taught in
Spanish. Contributes to International Studies, and Latin American and Border Studies.
Prerequisite: Spanish 15-164, or equivalent placement or permission of instructor. (H)
(SJ) (JP) (Fall, Summer)
SPA15-364 Cultures and Communities of Spain
Exploration of Peninsular Spanish cultures incorporating a variety of materials and
approaches, such as geography, history, architecture, literature, music, art and
religion. This course has a community-engaged learning component when taught on
campus. Also offered as part of SU's advanced Spanish summer study abroad
program to Spain in odd-numbered years. This course is taught in Spanish.
Contributes to International Studies. Prerequisite: Spanish 15-164, or equivalent
placement, or permission of instructor. (H) (SJ) (PJ) (Spring, Summer)
GEORGETOWN, TEXAS
512.863.6511
CONTACT