--- Page 1 of 21 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
SPANISH
Notable Faculty & Student Achievements
March 2026
Professor of Spanish Katy Ross presented her paper “Purchasing Pregnancy: Egg Donation in
Spain” at the NeMLA conference in Pittsburgh, PA on March 6.
January 2026
Staff Instructor in Spanish Noelia Cigarroa-Cooke and Professor of Spanish Carlos de Oro
presented the paper “Comparative Allegories of Authoritarianism in Contemporary Latin American
Horror Cinema” at the 2026 Annual AIFOR Conference in Honolulu, HI from January 3–7.

--- Page 2 of 21 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
December 2025
Professor of Spanish Katy Ross had her second book, Narrating Infertility in Spain, published on
December 9. More information is available here.
Associate Professor of Spanish Abby Dings and co-author Tammy Jandrey Hertel of the
University of Virginia presented a talk titled “The Use of Open Educational Resources in Medical
Spanish Courses” at the American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages (ACTFL) Annual
Convention and World Languages Expo held November 20–23 in New Orleans. The practice-
oriented presentation aimed to showcase available open educational resources (OER) for Spanish
for healthcare professions and guided attendees through materials addressing cultural practices
and perspectives surrounding childbirth.
Professor of Spanish Katy Ross led a workshop on AI in the L2 classroom at PAMLA, the Pacific
Ancient and Modern Language Association, in San Francisco on November 23.

--- Page 3 of 21 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
November 2025
Staff Instructor in Spanish Noelia Cigarroa-Cooke and Associate Professor of Spanish Abby
Dings presented a talk, titled “Establishing Community Partnerships for Spanish for Healthcare
Professions: Laying the Groundwork for Equitable, Experiential Learning,” at the 2025
NAMS/MOLA (National Association of Medical Spanish/Medical Organization for Latino
Advancement) conference in San Antonio from November 6–7.
October 2025
For the first time,was represented at the 2025 HSI Battle of the Brains, a
premier national competition that brings together top student talent from across the country to
solve real-world business and technology challenges. Southwestern’s inaugural team included
eight exceptional students: Asin Allavudeen ’27, Santiago Cuevas ’26, Cassidie Gomez ’26,
Julyssa Hernandez ’27, Yeva-Mariya Hayko ’26, Anna Hulett ’28, Alyanna Martinez ’27, and
Juan Carlos Martinez Varela ’27. Selected through a competitive internal application process,
the students participated in a 24-hour cross-disciplinary challenge integrating computer science,
marketing, finance, and sustainable business strategy. They also engaged in professional
development workshops led by industry leaders from Dell Technologies, eBay, Thrivent Financial,
Capital One, and The Home Depot. Southwestern’s team earned first place in the Video Marketing
Challenge, an interactive activity sponsored by Kickin It ATX that tested their creativity and
collaboration under a time constraint. In addition, Juan Carlos Martinez Varela was awarded
scholarships from both Dell Technologies and eBay in recognition of his outstanding academic
and professional accomplishments and his ability to make a lasting impression on company
representatives throughout the event. Special thanks to the faculty and staff who coordinated the
team’s participation: Hispanic Academic Success Coordinator Amalia Merino, Director of the
Center for Career & Professional Development Adrian D. Ramirez, Associate Professor of Spanish
Abby Dings, and Professor of Business Debika Sihi. Gratitude is also extended to the blind
judges who assisted with the internal selection process, Assistant Vice President of Admission

--- Page 4 of 21 ---

Christine Bowman, Director of Admission Jaime Gonzalez, and Professor of Kinesiology Scott
McLean, as well as Visual Content Producer Todd White for photography and videography of the
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
event.
July 2025
Associate Professor of Spanish Abby Dings presented a talk titled “Open Educational Resources
for Spanish for Healthcare Professions” at the American Association of Teachers of Spanish and
Portuguese (AATSP) annual conference, held June 26-29 in Panama City, Panama. The
presentation highlighted strategies for incorporating open educational resources (OER) into
medical Spanish curricula to enhance accessibility, build communicative competence, and
promote cultural humility.
April 2025
Staff Instructor in Spanish Noelia Cigarroa-Cooke and Professor of Spanish Carlos de
Oro presented the paper “El monstruo político como una alegoría crítica en el cine
latinoamericano contemporáneo” at the 2025 Secolas Conference in Mexico City, Mexico from
April 24-26.

--- Page 5 of 21 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Spanish minor Jessica McCutcheon ’28 presented a research paper titled “Cerrando Brechas:
Desafíos de Salud Mental para los Inmigrantes Hispanos” at the Latin American and Latinx Studies
Symposium held at Rollins College on April 4. Jessica’s paper addresses one of the most urgent
and often overlooked public health issues in the U.S.—the systemic barriers to mental health care
for Hispanic immigrants. At a time when mental health disparities are deepening, her research
brings critical attention to the cultural, linguistic, and structural challenges affecting one of the
fastest-growing populations in the country. Her participation in the symposium was sponsored by
Endowed Professor of Spanish Carlos de Oro, who mentored Jessica in preparation for her
presentation.
Professor of Spanish Katy Ross published an article titled “No quiero ser mamá: Non-
motherhood in Pronatalist Spain” in Letras Hispanas. This article analyzes how a graphic novel
portrays a woman’s decision to not become a mother and the pushback she receives through her
visual narrative. Read the article here.
Spanish major Maricruz Zacharias ’25 presented a research paper titled “Danzas aztecas: la
representación ceremonial de las creencias” at the Latin American and Latinx Studies Symposium
held at Rollins College on April 4. Maricruz studied how through the performative nature of dance
rituals, the choreographic patterns were used to convey stories, spiritual beliefs, and communal
values. Her paper comes from the independent study she is doing this semester with Associate
Professor of Spanish María de los Ángeles Rodríguez Cadena, who mentored Maricruz to
present at the Symposium.

--- Page 6 of 21 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Associate Professor of Spanish Abby Dings published “Pedagogical Approaches to VE” with co-
author Tammy Jandrey Hertel of the University of Lynchburg. The chapter, which appears in The
Palgrave Encyclopedia of Computer-Assisted Language Learning, edited by Lee McCallum and Dara
Tafazoli, explores the use of virtual exchanges in second language teaching as a means to
enhance the learning experience by providing opportunities to interact and communicate with
speakers of the target language. More information on the volume can be found here.
January 2025
Professor of Spanish Katy Ross presented her paper “(In)visible Mothering Decisions in Leña
menuda” at the Modern Languages Association (MLA) conference in New Orleans, LA from
January 9–12.
December 2024
Associate Professor of Spanish Abby Dings and co-author Tammy Jandrey Hertel of the
University of Lynchburg presented a talk, titled “Study Abroad as a Safe Place for Heritage
Speakers to Practice Speaking,” at the American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages
(ACTFL) Annual Convention and World Languages Expo held November 22–24 in Philadelphia, PA.

--- Page 7 of 21 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
November 2024
Professor of Spanish Katy Ross presented her paper “Translating memories: from autobiography
to fiction” at PAMLA in Palm Springs, CA on November 10.
October 2024
Staff Instructor in Spanish Noelia Cigarroa-Cooke and Professor of Spanish Carlos de
Oro presented the paper “Monstruosidad y poder: Alegorías de la injusticia en Sin señas
particulares y La llorona” at the 77th annual convention of the Rocky Mountains Modern
Language Association in Las Vegas, NV, on October 10-12.
April 2024
Sabrina Woodward ’25 presented the paper “Motocicleta lúdica/Playful motorcycle” at the Latin
American and Latinx Studies Symposium held at Rollins College on March 22. Her presentation
was based on the course “Leisure and Play in Latin America” (Fall 2023) that Sabrina took with

--- Page 8 of 21 ---

Associate Professor of Spanish María de los Ángeles Rodriguez Cadena, who mentored her to
present at the Symposium.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Professor of Spanish Carlos de Oro presented the paper “Revelando el impacto y el trauma del
conflicto armado: La espectralidad como estrategia cinematográfica en el cine colombiano del
nuevo milenio” at the 2024 Southwest Council on Latin American Studies in Panama City, Panama.
March 2024
Professor of Spanish Katy Ross and Andrea Stanescu ’24 presented their paper “La doble
alteridad en Carmen & Lola” at the Northeastern Modern Languages Conference in Boston, MA,
March 8-10.
Associate Professor of Spanish Abby Dings and coauthor Tammy Jandrey Hertel of the University
of Lynchburg presented a talk titled “The study abroad experiences of heritage Spanish speakers”
at the Georgetown University Round Table on Languages and Linguistics (GURT) in Washington,
D.C., March 1-3, 2024. This year’s theme was “Education Abroad: Language, Learners, and
Communities.”

--- Page 9 of 21 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
January 2024
Assistant Dean of Strategic Initiatives and Professor of Spanish Laura Senio Blair had her article
titled “Unlocking the Door to Shadow and Substance: Nona Fernández’s La dimensión
desconocida” published in the 50th issue of the journal Ciberletras: Revista de crítica literaria y de
cultura. Learn more here.
Professor of Spanish Katy Ross had an article, “Las técnicas de reproducción asistida y la
donación: el caso de Samanta Villar,” published in the Revista de ALCE SXXI, Journal of
Contemporary Spanish Literature and Film.
December 2023
Associate Professor of Spanish Abby Dings and coauthor Tammy Jandrey Hertel of the University
of Lynchburg presented a talk titled “Language Variation and Standard Language Ideologies in

--- Page 10 of 21 ---

Spanish Classrooms” at the American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages (ACTFL)
Annual Convention and World Languages Expo held November 17–19 in Chicago, Illinois.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
November 2023
Associate Professor of Spanish María de los Ángeles Rodríguez Cadena presented
“Ecofeminismo y poesía indígena Latinoamericana” at the Asociación de Estudios de Género y
Sexualidades Conference at the Universidad Autonóma de Querétaro. Querétaro, Mexico. October
5-7, 2023.
Staff Instructor of Spanish Noelia Cigarroa-Cooke and Associate Professor of Spanish María de
los Ángeles Rodríguez Cadena presented research papers at the annual Canadian Association of
Hispanic Studies Conference in Ottawa, Ontario, June 3-5, 2023. Cigarroa-Cooke presented “En las
entretelas del corazón guatemalteco: tradición y justicia en la película La Llorona de Jayro
Bustamante (Guatemala, 2020).” Rodríguez Cadena presented “Mujeres del pasado en las series
históricas de televisión en México.”

--- Page 11 of 21 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
May 2023
Professor of Spanish Katy Ross and Bailey Barlow ’23 had their second co-authored article come
out in print. The article “The Mother-Daughter Relationship in Gazpacho Agridulce” was published
in Hispanic Journal vol. 44, no. 1 (spring 2023).
April 2023
Professor of Spanish Katy Ross and Bailey Barlow ’23 presented their paper “The Mother-
Daughter Relationship in Gazpacho Agridulce” at the Northeast Modern Language Association
conference in Niagara Falls, New York, on Saturday, March 25. A longer version of this paper has
been accepted for publication in Hispanic Journal and will come out this summer.
Feburary 2023
Professor of Communications Studies Valerie Renegar and Kristi Cole co-edited the book
Refiguring Motherhood Beyond Biology, which was published this month. The book features
essays that challenge the biological expectations of motherhood and features work by
communication, rhetoric, and motherhood scholars across the country, including Southwestern’s

--- Page 12 of 21 ---

Renegar, Assistant Professor of Communication Studies Lamiyah Bahrainwala, Professor of
Spanish Katy Ross, and her student Bailey Barlow ’23.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
January 2023
Professor of Spanish Laura Senio Blair 2023 has been selected as one of the Associated Colleges
of the South (ACS) 10 academic leadership fellows. The program is aimed at providing leadership
experiences to a diverse cohort of humanities faculty members and will combine leadership
training, mentoring, and hands-on leadership experiences for a diverse group of tenured
humanities faculty as they enter administration leadership.
December 2022
Professor of Spanish Katy Ross, Visiting Assistant Professor of Political Science Katie Aha, and
Catherine Hiebel ’22 published an article in Women’s Studies: An Interdisciplinary Journal. Their
article, “Populism and Surrogacy in Spain,” can be found here.

--- Page 13 of 21 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
November 2022
Associate Professor of Spanish Abby Dings and coauthor Tammy Jandrey Hertel of the University
of Lynchburg presented at the Heritage Languages Special Interest Group panel of the American
Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages (ACTFL) Annual Convention and World Languages
Expo held November 18-20 in Boston, Massachusetts. Their talk, titled “Heritage Spanish
Speakers’ Reflections on Their Study Abroad Experiences,” was based on a thematic analysis of
follow-up interviews with a subset of participants who had completed their original survey. It
explored how the participants’ heritage speaker status impacted their study abroad experiences.
August 2022
Professor of Spanish Katy Ross presented a paper titled “La Adopción Internacional en La
Adopción de Daniela Féjerman” at the Asociación Internacional de Literatura y Cine Españoles
Siglo XXI annual conference, held July 12–15 in Oviedo, Spain.
April 2022
Spanish majors Evelyn Eason ’22 and Danielle Perales ’23 presented papers at the Latin
American and Latinx Studies Symposium at Rollins College on April 8. Eason presented “Poesia

--- Page 14 of 21 ---

Indígena y Ecofeminismo en la Obra de Irma Pineda Santiago (Indigenous Poetry and
Ecofeminism in the Work of Irma Pineda Santiago).” This presentation is based on her Spanish
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
honor thesis. Perales presented “La Importancia de Conocer: El Humanismo Lúdico en Diarios de
Motocicleta(The Power of Knowledge: Ludic Humanism in The Motorcycle Diaries).” Both
presentations were delivered in Spanish and stemmed from upper-level courses taught by
Associate Professor of Spanish María de los Ángeles Rodriguez Cadena.
March 2022
Staff Instructor in Spanish Noelia Cigarroa-Cooke and Professor of Spanish Carlos de
Oro copresented the paper “En el Umbral de la Pubertad: Viaje al Interior Femenino en Niña
Errantede Rubén Mendoza” at the Southeastern Council of Latin American Studies 69th Annual
Meeting, held March 10–12 in Charlotte, North Carolina.
Professor of Spanish Katy Ross, visiting Assistant Professor of Political Science Katie
Aha, and Catherine Hiebel ’22 presented a panel titled “Populism and Surrogacy in Spain” at the
XXIX Congreso Internacional de Literatura y Estudios Hispánicos, held March 8–10 in San Juan,
Puerto Rico. Ross presented “Surrogacy in Spain: the Bioethical and Feminist concerns”; Aha
presented “Populism and Surrogacy”; and Hiebel presented “Spanish Populist Parties and Their
Positions on Surrogacy.” The three were told that their presentation was the most coherent and
organized panel the audience heard.

--- Page 15 of 21 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Associate Professor of Spanish Abby Dings presented a talk titled “Heritage Spanish Speakers’
Reflections on Their Unique Study Abroad Experiences” with coauthor Tammy Jandrey Hertel of
the University of Lynchburg at the 9th National Symposium on Spanish as a Heritage Language,
held February 24–26 in Tallahassee, Florida.
November 2021
Associate Professor of Spanish Abby Dings presented a recorded talk titled “The Unique
Experiences of Heritage Spanish Speakers Studying Abroad” with her collaborator Tammy Jandrey
Hertel (University of Lynchburg) at the 2021 American Council on the Teaching of Foreign
Languages (ACTFL) Annual Convention and World Languages Expo, which was held virtually
November 19–21.
October 2021
Professor of Spanish Laura Senio Blair presented a paper at the International Conference of
Hispanic Women Filmmakers titled “Burying Ashes and Making Dust: Memorial Acts in the Latin
American Road Movie.” The paper analyzed how Ecuadorian film director Tania Hermida subverts
and decenters the traditional (Hollywood) characteristics of road films to represent a Latin
American and feminist perspective.

--- Page 16 of 21 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Professor of Spanish and Wilhelmina Cullen Robertson Endowed Professor Katy Ross presented a
talk titled “Faculty-Student Research in Spanish” at the virtual 2021 Mountain Interstate Foreign
Language Conference, held October 7–9.
July 2021
An article cowritten by Professor of Spanish Katy Ross and Lizzeth Cepeda Lozano ’20, “La
Adopción China en El Alfabeto de los Pájarosde Nuria Barrios,” was recently published by
ConSecuencias.
Professor of Spanish Katy Ross presented a paper titled “La Ovodonación Dentro del Marco
Neoliberal” at the ALCE SXXI virtual conference during the week of July 12–16.

--- Page 17 of 21 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
May 2021
Double major in Spanish and environmental studies Jasmine Herrera ’21 and history major Saul
Zuñiga ’22 presented “Mapping the Past” at the ninth Phi Alpha Theta History Conference, held at
Texas State University (TSU) on April 24, 2021. Their poster was awarded first place for
undergraduate virtual presentations. The poster was selected from 19 submissions by students
from TSU, Baylor, and UT Dallas, and the award included an honorarium and a certificate.
Please join us in congratulating the recipients of the following awards:
2021 Teaching Awards
Tenured: Associate Professor of Education Alicia Moore
Tenure-track: Assistant Professor of Business Gabriela Flores
Visiting, part-time, and staff with faculty rank: Director of General Chemistry
Labs Willis Weigand
2021 Jesse E. Purdy Excellence in Scholarly and Creative Works Award
Tenured: Associate Professor of Communication Studies Bob Bednar
Tenure-track: Assistant Professor of History Joseph Hower
2021 Excellence in Advising Award
Professor of Spanish Laura Senio Blair

--- Page 18 of 21 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
April 2021
Double major in Spanish and environmental studies Jasmine Herrera ’21 and history major Saul
Zuñiga ’22 presented a paper titled “Mapping the Past: A Look into the Distribution of Midwives
from Escuela Libre de Obstetricia y Enfermeria in Mexico City during the 1920s and 30s” at the 9th
Phi Alpha Theta History Conference organized by Texas State University and held virtually on April
24, 2021. Herrera and Zuñiga undertook their research, wrote the paper, and prepared the
presentation under the mentorship of Associate Professor of History Jethro Hernández
Berrones during the 2020–2021 academic year. You can see their presentation here.
Associate Professor of Spanish Ángeles Rodriguez Cadena moderated the panel “Music and
Social Movements” at the Latin American and Latinx Studies Symposium, an annual
undergraduate event organized by Rollins College, which was held virtually on April 9 this year.
Jasmine Herrera ’21, double major in Spanish and environmental studies, presented a paper in
Spanish titled “La Revolución de Testimonios en el Gran Abismo de Chile” as part of the panel
“Reexamining Historical Events” at the Latin American and Latinx Studies Symposium, an annual
undergraduate event organized by Rollins College, which was held virtually on April 9 this year.
Herrera wrote that paper for Associate Professor of Spanish Ángeles Rodriguez Cadena’s class
Cultural Memory in Latin America.

--- Page 19 of 21 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
March 2021
Associate Professor of Spanish Abby Dings presented a poster titled “On Becoming Bilingual:
Students’ Language Ideologies in a (Second) Language Acquisition Course” with her collaborator
Suzanne García-Mateus (California State University, Monterey Bay) at the American Association
for Applied Linguistics annual conference, which was held virtually March 20–23, 2021.
January 2021
Professor of Spanish Katy Ross and Bailey Barlow ’23 presented a paper titled “The
Commercialization of Infertility: Quien Quiere Ser Madre (2017) by Silvia Nanclares” at the 2021
MLA Annual Convention on January 8. The talk was part of the panel “Politics as Usual: Women
Writers in Contemporary Spain Confronting a Bias System,” and the paper is the result of a
faculty–student research project that began in the summer of 2020 and was made possible by
funding from the Wilhelmina Cullen Robertson endowed professorship held by Ross.

--- Page 20 of 21 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
September 2020
Professor of Spanish Katy Ross and Lizzeth Cepeda Lozano ’20 had their article “Un Viaje
Fantástico: La Adopción China en El Alfabeto de los Pájaros de Nuria Barrios” accepted for
publication in the Journal ConSecuencias. The article started as a summer faculty–student research
project and continued as a semester-long independent study that culminated in this publication.
Ross and Lozano examine the adoption of Chinese babies by Spanish families, as depicted in the
novel El Alfabeto de los Pájaros by Nuria Barrios.
July 2020
Associate Professor of Spanish Carlos de Oro published the article “Cine de Guerra, Drama,
Comedia y Thriller: Representaciones del Trauma, La Violencia, y la Insuficiencia Estatal en el Cine
Colombiano” in the peer-reviewed journal Hispanófila.
Professor of Spanish Katy Ross participated in Maternidad, Reproducción Social y Cuidados en la
É poca Neoliberal: Descolonizando el Imaginario Patriarcal, a virtual conference hosted by the
Asociación Internacional de Literatura y Cine Españoles Siglo XXI (ALCES XXI) July 13–16. She
presented the paper “Maternofobia: El Miedo a la Maternidad Patriarcal,” in which Ross analyzes
the book Maternofobia by Diana López Varela. The conference was scheduled to be held in
Oviedo, Spain.

--- Page 21 of 21 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
May 2020
Associate Professor of Spanish Carlos de Oro published an article titled “Traveling Narratives,
Neorealism, and Marginalization: Ciro Guerra’s Cinema of Denunciation and Resistance” in the
peer-reviewed journal Latin American Perspectives . He also presented a paper about the same
topic at the 2020 Southeastern Council of Latin American Studies conference in Austin, TX.
GEORGETOWN, TEXAS
512.863.6511
CONTACT