--- Page 1 of 5 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
MAJORS & MINORS
Spanish
Study the fourth most widely spoken language in the world with
internationally renowned scholars of language and literature.
Abby Dings
Associate Professor of Spanish and Chair
EEMMAAIILL CCAALLLL

--- Page 2 of 5 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Why study Spanish? Spanish is the official language of 20 countries, and the United States is the
second largest Spanish-speaking country in the world after Mexico. In an age of globalization and
economic interdependence, studying foreign languages is crucial to success in a 21st-century
career. Majoring or minoring in Spanish at Southwestern will not only improve your thinking and
prepare you to make significant contributions in a variety of professions; it will also broaden your
intercultural perspective and empower you to communicate with the more than 527 million people
around the world who speak the language. And did you know that research has shown that
bilingualism and multilingualism increase cognitive function, such as memory and perception? So
not only will you be able to speak a second language, study abroad, and be engaged with the
community, but you’ll also improve your mind.
Through speaking and listening comprehension, you will acquire strong communication skills and
explore how the Spanish language works: How do words, concepts, and metaphors vary across
languages? How does Spanish help us understand the world in a different way? By also immersing
yourself in cultural works of the Spanish-speaking world, you’ll develop the ability to analyze and
critically evaluate works of literature, film, and other artistic representations while thinking about
how cultural practices differ from country to country and even between regions where different

--- Page 3 of 5 ---

dialects of Spanish are spoken. Whether you are brand new to the language or grew up speaking
SpanMisehn uin theS heoarmche, we have courses that will fit your interests and neeAdpsp.ly Visit Majors & Minors
At SU, you will improve your linguistic fluency and enhance your cultural immersion through
various high-impact experiences led by our award-winning faculty. Our transformative study
abroad programs in Buenos Aires, Argentina, and Granada, Spain, empower you to practice your
language skills while conversing about culture, politics, and current events with native speakers.
Internships in Peru, Ecuador, Costa Rica, and throughout Europe provide you with valuable
language-study and career-training opportunities. And through community-engaged learning, our
partnerships with local organizations and school districts enable you to volunteer in immigrant
support services, participate in dual-language classrooms, and teach or tutor ESL.
True to the Paideia spirit, students studying Spanish at Southwestern often double-major or minor
in other fields, such as business, Latin American and Border studies, education, biology,
communication studies, political science, and international studies. By making connections with
other disciplines and expanding your oral and written communication skills, you will be prepared to
pursue a number of careers beyond graduation. Our alumni have gone on to work as marketing
professionals at a Chilean vineyard, doctors in Hispanic communities, coordinators for tourism
bureaus, researchers and teachers in selective graduate programs, and so much more!
AFTER SOUTHWESTERN
Featured Alumni Stories

--- Page 4 of 5 ---

Happy Accidents
Serendipity led Kristin Ellermann ’10 to major in Latin American studies, study abroad, join the
Peace Corps, and become an educator.
READ FULL STORY
EXPLORE SOUTHWESTERN
Spanish News
SSEEEE FFUULLLL LLIISSTT
 
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors

--- Page 5 of 5 ---

SU Tertulia Student Organization Helps Teach Spanish through Film’s newest student organization aims to help students learn conversational
Spanish through watching and discussing popular films.
READ FULL STORY
 
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
GEORGETOWN, TEXAS
512.863.6511
CONTACT