--- Page 1 of 3 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
SSOOCCIIOOLLOOGGYY && AANNTTHHRROOPPOOLLOOGGYY
Courses
AANNTTHHRROOPPOOLLOOGGYY SSOOCCIIOOLLOOGGYY
Topically, our courses cover issues central to our contemporary global society: questions
of race class and gender; power and violence; cross-cultural constructions of masculinity
and femininity; environmental injustice; global inequality; migration and identity; and
advocacy and activism. Geographically, we specialize in the Caribbean, Latin America, and
Latinos in the U.S.
Below you will find a list of our current or recent offerings. See the course catalog for
descriptions and updated information.
3355--110044 IInnttrroodduuccttiioonn ttoo CCuullttuurraall AAnntthhrrooppoollooggyy
This course provides a critical understanding of the similarities and differences in
cultures and peoples through time and space, and of the application of
anthropological knowledge to contemporary global issues. Topics covered may include
the history of anthropology; human evolution; gender; kinship; political organization;
economies; race and social inequality; religion and spiritualities; language;
ethnographic methods and ethics. Contributes to International Studies and Sociology.
(Each semester) (ScS) (SJ)(PJ)
3355--223344 AAnntthhrrooppoollooggyy ooff RRaaccee:: SShhiiffttiinngg tthhee GGaazzee
The study of whiteness begins in the early twentieth century when W.E.B. Du Bois
asserts that White Americans benefit from the wages of whiteness. This course
explores the White Trash School of Thought; Whiteness in Education; ethnographies
of White Womanhood; White Abolitionists; African Diaspora Anthropology; and
Critical Whiteness Studies. Contributes to Race and Ethnicity Studies/Concepts
Course. Prerequisite: Anthropology 35-104 or permission of the instructor. (ScS)
3355--224444 RRaaccee,, CCllaassss aanndd GGeennddeerr iinn tthhee CCaarriibbbbeeaann
This course critically examines how the constructs of race, class and gender shape
everyday life in the Caribbean. The course will cover history, human-environmental
relations, the global circulations that continue to create the Caribbean (e.g. migration,
tourism and development), spiritualities, language, music, and Carnival. Contributes
to Feminist Studies, International Studies, Latin American and Border Studies, and
Race and Ethnicity Studies/Group-Themed Course. Prerequisite: Anthropology
35-104, Feminist Studies 04-104, or permission of the instructor. (ScS) (SJ)(PJ)
3355--227744 CCuullttuurraall HHrrttgg CCrriimm JJuusstt RRaaccee AAmmeerr SSoouutthh
This course will explore how predominantly White cities in the American South

--- Page 2 of 3 ---

commemorate historical Black servitude and thus construct local notions of race.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Through a survey of various cultural heritage projects (museums, monuments, history
classes, and others) students will examine the relationship between racial ideology,
place making, and identity. Contributes to Race and Ethnicity Studies/Group-Themed
Course and Legal Studies Certificate. Prerequisite: Anthropology 35-104 or
permission of the instructor. (ScS)
3355--330044 SSeelleecctteedd TTooppiiccss
These are courses that fall out of our typical range of anthropology courses. Offered
infrequently. May be repeated with change in content.
3355--333344 GGlloobbaall EEnnvviirroonnmmeennttaall JJuussttiiccee
An exploration of global environmental issues from a perspective that foregrounds
questions of social inequality (differences in socioeconomic status, race, gender,
indigeneity, national identity, etc.). The course includes an overview of the U.S.
environmental justice movement, a consideration of global inequality, and social
theories of nature and culture. Topics addressed may include global climate change,
consumerism, pollution and toxic substances, resource extraction, bio-diversity
conservation, food production systems, natural disasters, and water scarcity.
Contributes to Animal Studies, Environmental Studies, Feminist Studies, Health
Studies, International Studies, Race and Ethnicity Studies/Allied Course, and Legal
Studies Certificate. Prerequisite: Anthropology 35-104, Environmental Studies
49-104, or Feminist Studies 04-104. (ScS) (SJ) (PJ)
3355--442244 TThheeoorryy && MMeetthhoodd iinn CCuullttuurraall AAnntthhrrooppoollooggyy
This course introduces students to different kinds of assumptions and questions that
have informed anthropological inquiry in the past, and that currently orient research
and writing in cultural anthropology. The course simultaneously explores the methods
for gathering data that are necessarily intertwined with these assumptions and
questions. Students will practice employing different methods (including participant
observation and interviewing techniques) and applying different theoretical
approaches. This course prepares students to conduct the ethnographic research
project required for the senior seminar. Prerequisite: Anthropology 35-104.
Restricted to Majors. (Fall)
3355--552244 SSoouutthhwweesstteerrnn UUnniivv RRaacciiaall HHiissttoorryy PPrroojjeecctt
This course introduces students to the Southwestern Racial History Project, where
critical exploration of the university's racial underpinnings is taking place. Students
will be exposed to historical and archival material that has already been collected and
will contribute to an on-going archive that will be housed on campus and digitally.
Contributes to Race and Ethnicity Studies/Group-Themed Course. Prerequisite:
Anthropology 35-104 or permission of the instructor. (ScS).
3355--996644 SSeenniioorr SSeemmiinnaarr
The anthropology capstone requires students to develop a major paper in which they
contextualize the data generated from their ethnographic research project in relevant

--- Page 3 of 3 ---

scholarly literature. Students will work with each other and their professor throughout
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
the capstone in an intellectual community of knowledge producers. Students will
present their paper to campus at the end of the course and will be encouraged to
present at national or regional conferences and the Southwestern Undergraduate
Works Symposium. Prerequisite: Permission of instructor. (Spring) (WA) (ScS)
GGEEOORRGGEETTOOWWNN,, TTEEXXAASS
551122..886633..66551111
CCOONNTTAACCTT