--- Page 1 of 8 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
PSYCHOLOGY
Courses
Below you will find a list of our current or recent offerings. See the course catalog for descriptions
and updated information.
33-104 Principles of Psychology
Students will be introduced to the methods and findings of both classic and current
psychological research, as well as to the practical applications of this work. Emphasis is placed
on acquiring a foundation of knowledge and critical skills that are necessary to evaluate
psychological research. Contributes to Animal Studies, Health Studies, and Spanish for
Healthcare Professions Certificate. (Fall, Spring) (ScS)
33-204 Survey of Research Methods
This course introduces students to a variety of research methods in psychology, including
experimental and non-experimental designs. Topics include literature review, hypothesis
formation, psychological measurement, sampling, design, statistical analysis, ethics, and
scientific writing in APA style. This course (with no lab) covers the basic methodological
background necessary for upper-level psychology courses but does not involve project-based
research. It is recommended for (a) psychology majors pursuing non-psychology careers or
who prefer an internship capstone rather than a research capstone, (b) psychology minors, and
(c) non-psychology majors preparing to take the MCAT. Contributes to Data Analytics and Data
Science. Prerequisites: Psychology 33-104 and Mathematics 52-114. (Spring) (WA) (ScS)
33-211 Lab for Inquiry Based Research Methods
This 1-credit lab is designed to give students practical, hands-on experience in designing,
conducting, analyzing, and writing up original research. This lab is required for Inquiry-Based
Research Methods. Co-requisite: Concurrent registration in 33-214, with the same professor,

--- Page 2 of 8 ---

is required. You must register for lecture and lab with matching section numbers (e.g. 33-214-
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
01 & 33-211-01). (Fall, Spring) (ScS)
33-214 Inquiry-Based Research Methods
This course gives students in-depth experience with the research methods used in psychology,
including experimental and non-experimental designs. Topics include literature review,
hypothesis formation, psychological measurement, sampling, statistical analysis, ethics, and
scientific writing in APA style. This course (which includes a required 1-credit lab; 33-211)
involves intense project-based original research, and serves as good preparation for later
independent research (capstone research or graduate school). This course is recommended for
(a) psychology majors who prefer a research capstone over an internship capstone, and (b)
students considering applying to graduate school in psychology. Corequisite: Concurrent
registration in 33-211, with the same professor, is required. You must register for lecture and
lab with matching section numbers (e.g. 33-214-01 & 33-211-01). Contributes to Data
Analytics and Data Science. Prerequisites: Psychology 33-104 and Mathematics 52-114. (Fall,
Spring) (WA) (ScS) Not appropriate for first-year students.
33-221 Lab Inquiry Based Research Mthd W/ Anim
This 1-credit lab is designed to give students practical, hands-on experience in designing,
conducting, analyzing, and writing up original research in animal behavior. This lab is required
for Inquiry-Based Research Methods (with ANIMALS). Co-requisite: Concurrent registration in
33-224, with the same professor, is required. You must register for lecture and lab with
matching section numbers (e.g. 33-224-01 & 33-221-01). (Fall) (ScS)
33-224 Inquiry Based Research Methods W/ Animal
This course gives students in-depth experience with the research methods used in psychology,
including experimental and non-experimental designs. Topics include literature review,
hypothesis formation, psychological measurement, sampling, statistical analysis, ethics, and
scientific writing in APA style. This course (which includes a required 1-credit lab; 33-211)
involves intense project-based original research with animals, and serves as good preparation
for later independent research (capstone research or graduate school). This course is
recommended for (a) psychology majors who prefer a research capstone over an internship
capstone, (b) students considering applying to graduate school, and (c) students interested in

--- Page 3 of 8 ---

the Neuroscience Minor. Contributes to Data Analytics, Data Science, and Computer-Aided
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Design & 3D Printing Certificate. Corequisite: Concurrent registration in 33-221, with the
same professor, is required. You must register for lecture and lab with matching section
numbers (e.g. 33-224-01 & 33-221-01). Prerequisites: Psychology 33-104 and Mathematics
52-114. (Fall) (WA) (ScS) Not appropriate for first-year students.
33-334 Personality Theory and Research
A survey course that provides an overview of the major personality theories and the methods
and findings of personality research. The trait approach will be fully explored, but significant
attention will also be paid to both classical and modern modifications of psychoanalytic
theories and to biological, learning-based (behavioral), cognitive, and humanistic theories. The
emphasis will be on examination and evaluation of the experimental evidence pertinent to each
theory. Prerequisite: Psychology 33-104. (Spring) (ScS)
33-344 Lifespan Development
This course will provide a broad overview of the physical, cognitive, social, and emotional
aspects of development from conception through late adulthood. In this course students will
learn to think critically about environmental, cultural, and biological influences on
development. Contributes to Health Studies. Prerequisite: Psychology 33-104. (Fall, Spring)
(ScS)
33-353 Cross-Cultural Psychology
In this four-week travel course, we will study the principles of cultural psychology and how
psychological processes/outcomes differ and/or the same for people from different cultural
backgrounds. Through examining behavior, social institutions, and cultural norms we will
compare the American psychological approach to three other countries that we visit. While in-
country, the course will include walking tours in each country, cultural visits, and day trips to
neighboring areas. From these experiences, we gather our data that we then use to test
cultural similarities and differences as well as consider the implications those have for
psychological theories. (Summer Study Abroad) (ScS)
33-364 Sexuality and Culture
The goal of this four-week travel course is to increase students' understanding of cross-
cultural differences in sexual attitudes and behaviors. Specifically, students will learn the ways

--- Page 4 of 8 ---

in which sex education, sexual health, and sexual and gender politics differ in other countries
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
compared to the United States. In addition to an in-depth analysis of sexuality, students will
study the history of marginalized groups, including the LGBT, sex work, and immigrant
communities, with a focus on the psychology of prejudice and discrimination. Students will also
be immersed in the visited culture(s) through guided tours, site visits to governmental and
nonprofit agencies, excursions, and other cultural activities. (Summer) (ScS) (SJ) (PJ)
33-374 Evolutionary Psychology
This survey course will provide a solid theoretical foundation for the study of psychology from
an evolutionary perspective. We will apply to humans the same lens that evolutionary biology
has applied to other species. This perspective cuts across cognition, motivation, attention,
social behavior, and many other aspects of psychology. The course will begin with an in-depth
introduction to evolutionary theory as it applies to human psychology and behavior, followed
by a survey of more specific psychological phenomena studied from an evolutionary
perspective. Contributes to Animal Studies. Prerequisite: Psychology 33-104. (Fall) (ScS)
33-384 Learning and Cognition
This course will use a functional lens to provide students with a foundation for learning theory
as well as modern cognitive science. The first part of the course explores the traditional
learning approach (e.g., classical and operant conditioning). The second part of the course is
devoted to cognitive science - starting with basic components (e.g., perception, attention),
moving to an in-depth consideration of memory, and ending with special topics in cognition
(e.g., judgment, decision-making). Contributes to Animal Studies and Neuroscience.
Prerequisite: Psychology 33-104. (Fall) (ScS)
33-412 Careers in Psych I: Major & Career Expl
This 2-credit course is for first-years or sophomore psychology majors who want to explore
career possibilities in psychology and maximize their experience in the major. In addition to
learning about the breadth of the field of psychology, assessing work values/interests/skills,
and researching different occupations, students will learn skills necessary for success as a
psychology major, including study skills, professional and ethical behavior, and time
management. Note: This course may not be taken concurrently with Psychology 33-422
Careers in Psychology II. Prerequisite: Psychology 33-104 (Spring)

--- Page 5 of 8 ---

33-422 Career Psych Ii: Prof Devel & Career Pln
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
This 2-credit course is for junior or senior psychology majors who intend to pursue graduate
study or a career in psychology or a psychology-related field. Students will engage in a variety
of activities that facilitate career exploration and professional development, including how to
research job opportunities and graduate programs, practice writing resumes and vitae, cover
letters, and personal statements, and developing a career plan and portfolio of marketable
skills. Note: This course may not be taken concurrently with Psychology 33-412 Careers in
Psychology I. Prerequisite: Psychology 33-104, and either Psychology 33-204, 33-214, or 33-
224. (Spring)
33-474 Forensic Psychology
This course focuses on the application of psychological knowledge in the civil and criminal
justice systems. As a seminar course with emphasis on critical discussion and student
presentations, it will include an exploration of the role that psychologists play in the courtroom
(e.g. case preparation, jury selection) and in criminal investigation (e.g. profiling,
interrogations). Emphasis will also be placed on the role of psychologists in evaluating various
states of mind or behavioral dispositions which bear on judicial process, such as competency
(to stand trial), insanity (defense), dangerousness (involuntary commitment), and criminally
relevant forms of psychopathology (e.g. psychopathy, sexual deviance). Contributes to Legal
Studies Certificate. (May term) (ScS)
33-484 Human Sexuality
This course is an introduction to the psychology of human sexuality. It covers a broad range of
topics, including male and female physiology, sexual orientation, sexual expression and
variation, sexual difficulties, birth control, reproduction, prostitution, pornography and many
others. The primary goal of this course is for students to develop a greater understanding of
their own sexuality and the sexuality of others, as well as to become more knowledgeable
about the topic of sex. Contributes to Health Studies. (Summer) (ScS)
33-524 Psychopathology & Clinical Science
An overview of the field of clinical psychology that involves the scientific study of mental illness
(psychopathology). The focus is on an empirically grounded examination of the symptomatic
presentation, classification and cause of a broad range of psychological disorders. Methods

--- Page 6 of 8 ---

used in the field to assess, treat and conduct research on the disorders will also be studied.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Contributes to Health Studies and Neuroscience. Prerequisite: Psychology 33-204, 33-214, or
33-224, and one of the following: Biology 50-173/171, 50-183/181, or Neuroscience 55-
104. (Fall) (ScS)
33-534 Behavioral Neuroscience
An introduction to the neurosciences with an emphasis on the techniques used to study the
neurobiological basis of behavior. The anatomy and function of the central nervous system is a
primary focus of the course and specific topics include how the central nervous system
mediates perception, emotions, motivation, sleep, learning and memory. Also Biology 50-324.
Contributes to Animal Studies, Biology, Health Studies, and Neuroscience. Prerequisite: Take
Biology 50-173/171 or 50-183/181, and one of the following: Psychology 33-204, Psychology
33-214, Psychology 224, Kinesiology 48-214, Biology 50-222 & 50-232, or Chemistry 51-
862; or permission of instructor. (Spring)
33-544 Health Psychology
This course will introduce students to the field of health psychology, which is the application of
psychological principles in understanding how the mind, body and behavior interact in health
and illness. Emphasis will be placed on the biopsychosocial model, which considers the role of
biological, psychological and social factors in health and illness. Topics of interest include
health promotion and primary prevention of illness, stress and coping, pain management,
health behaviors (e.g., nutrition, exercise, smoking), and a variety of behavior-related medical
conditions (e.g. cardiovascular disease, cancer, AIDS, eating disorders). Contributes to Health
Studies and Kinesiology. Prerequisite: Psychology 33-104, and either Psychology 33-204, 33-
214, 33-224, Biology 50-222/50-232, Kinesiology 48-214, or Sociology 34-314. (Alternating
Spring) (ScS)
33-564 Social Psychology
An introduction to the field of social psychology, which is the scientific study of how the
thoughts, feelings and actions of a person are influenced by other people and by social
situations. Topics include self-perception, self-presentation, person perception, attribution,
attitude formation and change, group dynamics and conflict, prejudice and stereotypes,
interpersonal relationships, and social influence and persuasion, among others. The focus is on

--- Page 7 of 8 ---

historical development of these topics as well as on current research and theory in these areas.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Prerequisite: Psychology 33-204, 33-214, or 33-224. (Spring) (ScS)
33-574 Close Relationships
People's lives exist in the context of interpersonal relationships. This 4-credit course is
designed to introduce students to theory and research on relationships, including friendships,
parent-child relationships, and adult romantic relationships. We will discuss issues and
concepts from attraction and mate selection all the way through break-up and divorce. Along
the way we will explore the major theories of close relationships and examine research that
helps us to understand how it is that intimate relationships develop, thrive, or deteriorate over
time. Prerequisite: Psychology 33-204, 33-214, or 33-224. (Alternating Spring) (ScS)
33-824 Research in Applied Psychology
Laboratory or field-based research course designed to provide hands-on research experience
related to questions concerning applied psychology. Students work directly with a faculty
member within the department. Students read and synthesize the literature, design a study,
collect and analyze data, and report the results. A written product is required of all students.
Prerequisites: Psychology 33-214 or 33-224, and permission of instructor. May be repeated
with different experiences. (Fall, Spring) (WA) (ScS)
33-834 Research in Behavioral Neuroscience
Laboratory or field-based research course designed to provide hands-on research experience
related to questions concerning neuroscience. Students work directly with a faculty member
within the department. Students read and synthesize the literature, design a study, collect and
analyze data and report the results. A written product is required of all students. Contributes
to Neuroscience and Computer-Aided Design & 3D Printing Certificate. Prerequisites:
Psychology 33-224 or 33-214, Psychology 33-534, and permission of instructor. May be
repeated with different experiences. (Fall, Spring) (WA) (ScS)
33-844 Research in Clinical Psychology
Laboratory or field-based research course designed to provide hands-on research experience
related to questions concerning clinical psychology. Students work directly with a faculty
member within the department. Students read and synthesize the literature, design a study,
collect and analyze data and report the results. A written product is required of all students.

--- Page 8 of 8 ---

Prerequisites: Psychology 33-214 or 33-224, Psychology 33-524, and permission of
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
instructor. May be repeated with different experiences. (Fall, Spring) (WA) (ScS)
33-864 Research in Developmental Psychology
Laboratory or field-based research course designed to provide hands-on research experience
related to questions concerning changes in behavior across the life-span. Students work
directly with a faculty member within the department. Students read and synthesize the
literature, design a study, collect and analyze data and report the results. A written product is
required of all students. Prerequisites: Psychology 33-214 or 33-224, Psychology 33-344, and
permission of instructor. May be repeated with different experiences. (Fall, Spring) (WA) (ScS)
33-874 Research in Social Psychology
Laboratory or field-based research course designed to provide hands-on research experience
related to questions concerning social psychology. Students work directly with a faculty
member within the department. Students read and synthesize the literature, design a study,
collect and analyze data, and report the results. A written product is required of all students.
Prerequisites: Psychology 33-214 or 33-224, Psychology 33-564, and permission of
instructor. May be repeated with different experiences. (Fall, Spring) (WA) (ScS)
33-884 Research in Cognitive Evolutionary Psych
Laboratory or field-based research course designed to provide hands-on research experience
on cognitive phenomena from an evolutionary perspective. Students work directly with a
faculty member within the department. Students read and synthesize the literature, design a
study, collect and analyze data, and report the results. A written product is required of all
students. Prerequisites: Psychology 33-214 or 33-224, Psychology 33-374, and permission of
instructor. May be repeated with different experiences. (Fall, Spring) (WA) (ScS)
33-912 Teaching Assistant Practicum
A field-based course designed to provide hands-on experience teaching at the undergraduate
level, preparing lectures, creating and grading assignments, and holding weekly supplemental
instruction sessions. In addition to attending the course with which they are assisting, they will
also meet with the course instructor on a weekly basis. A written product is required of all
students. Prerequisites: Psychology 33-214 or 33-224, and permission of instructor.