--- Page 1 of 20 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
PSYCHOLOGY
Notable Faculty & Student Achievements
February 2026
Professor of Psychology Fay Guarraci, along with several students and alumni, published an
article titled “Chronic testosterone enanthate or estradiol benzoate affects sexual behavior and
motivation in Long-Evans rats tested for partner preference” in Physiology and Behavior. This work
was supported by summer research programs (SCOPE ’24 and SURF ’25) and conducted by
psychology and biology capstone students. Raylee Bowling ’27 is first author, followed by
Chance Bauer ’26, Iva Irabor-Ighedosa ’26, Kai Wilson ’26, and Anna Pavlova ’28. Alumna Alex
Avila ’25 and visiting scholar Kole Petersen, a student from Colorado College, were also co-
authors. This project tested a model of gender-affirming hormone therapy in an animal model.
November 2025
Associate Professor of Psychology Carin Perilloux, along with psychology graduate Madeline
Bollinger ’24, psychology graduate and Coordinator of the Professor John Score Learning
Commons Laurel Mulkey ’24, and biology graduate Vy Nguyen ’23, have published a paper
titled “Hooked on a feeling: Psychological and physiological responses to ASMR triggers” in the
journal Technology, Mind, and Behavior. This article is based on three years worth of SCOPE
projects and is published with open access here.

--- Page 2 of 20 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Professor of Anthropology Melissa Johnson and her Summer 2025 SURF students presented
their findings at the 13th Race, Ethnicity and Place conference in Albuquerque, NM from
November 5–7. Their panel was titled “Race, Gender, Slavery and Freedom in Everyday Life on the
British coast of Central America, 1750-1830.” Dr. Johnson and three students presented their
papers: anthropology and feminist studies double major Dina Gaxiola ’28 presented “The Case of
Jane Trapp: Race, Gender, Slavery and Freedom in Early British Central America,” psychology and
sociology double major Sophia Hernandez ’28 presented “From Enslavement to Influence;
Gendered Agency, Racial Boundaries, and the Story of Ariadne Broaster,” Dr. Johnson presented
“Living across lines of freedom in the early history of Belize: The origins of the Bonner family,” and
biology and environmental studies double major Shae Whitney ’28 presented “Maria Middleton
– Slave, Criminal, Transported Convict: Understanding Gender, Race and Freedom across the
British Colonial World.” The students may have been the only undergraduates presenting papers
at this conference. The papers were well received, with one audience member sharing that this
was the most interesting panel they had attended.
Professor of Psychology Fay Guarraci and psychology alumnus Ian Klepcyk ’24 collaborated with
colleagues at the University of Texas at Austin to finally complete a four year long project that was
accepted for publication in Hormones and Behavior, titled “Chronic periadolescent leuprolide
exposure affects the expression of multiple genes in the hypothalamus and pituitary gland with a
different pattern of expression in female and male Long-Evans rats.” This project is one of the first
studies to investigate changes in the brain associated with exposure to puberty blockers for a
prolonged period of time in an animal model.

--- Page 3 of 20 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
August 2025
Professor of Psychology Fay Guarraci co-chaired and presented a workshop at the annual
meeting of the Society for Behavioral Neuroendocrinology, titled “Moving Forward: A Workshop
on Issues Facing Transgender Research (Models, Community, and Funding),” in addition to a
poster presentation, titled “Chronic periadolescent leuprolide exposure affects the expression of
multiple genes in the hypothalamus and pituitary gland with a different pattern of expression in
female and male Long-Evans rats,” co-authored by psychology graduate Ian Klepcyk ’24.
July 2025
Associate Professor of Psychology Carin Perilloux presented a talk titled “The Parental Effort
Scale: Creation and Validation” at the annual meeting of the Human Behavior and Evolution
Society (HBES) in Atlantic City, NJ in June. The talk described the 2+ year process of designing a
new psychological instrument with SU psychology capstone students.
February 2025

--- Page 4 of 20 ---

Several psychology faculty members and students presented posters at the annual meeting of the
Society of Personality and Social Psychology (SPSP) in Denver this past weekend. Professor of
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Psychology Erin Crockett, along with current capstone students Clayton Crusius ’25 and Sarah
Doroshow ’25, presented a poster, titled “Self-Expanding in a Virtual Reality World,” at the main
conference. Associate Professor of Psychology Carin Perilloux, along with current capstone
students Samantha Gonzalez ’25, Gwen Metz ’25, Georgia Micknal ’25, and Griffin Salinas ’25,
presented a poster titled “A Labor of Love (Mostly): Developing a Self-Perceived Parental Effort
Scale” at the Evolutionary Psychology Pre-Conference.
January 2025
Three faculty and an alumnus participated in the 2025 Joint Mathematics Meetings in Seattle, WA
from January 8-12. Associate Professor of Mathematics John Ross presented “Fast-flipping a
Calculus 3 Class using AI help” in the Mathematical Association of America (MAA) Contributed
Paper Session on “Using AI in Mathematics Instruction.” This was sponsored by the MAA special
interest group on artificial intelligence. Professor and Garey Chair of Mathematics Alison
Marr served on a panel to talk about the Enhancing Diversity in Graduate Education (EDGE)
Summer Program (edgeforwomen.org). The panel was sponsored by IGEN, the Inclusive Graduate
Education Network, which is a part of the National Science Foundation’s INCLUDES alliance:
Inclusion across the Nation of Communities of Learners of Underrepresented Discoverers in
Engineering and Science. Marr has been Co-Director of the EDGE Summer Program since 2020.
Associate Professor of Mathematics Therese Shelton presented “ODEs and the Flu” in the
American Mathematical Society (AMS) Special Session on “Modeling Matters in Teaching and
Learning Differential Equations,” sponsored by SIMIODE. Computational mathematics and
psychology alumna Daniela Beckelhymer ’20 co-organized the AMS Special Session on “Math
Research Community Climate Science at the Interface between Topological Data Analysis and
Dynamical Systems Theory.” Beckelhymer has completed the M.S. in Mathematics and is working
towards a Ph.D. in Mathematics at the University of Minnesota.

--- Page 5 of 20 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
November 2024
Eunice Mexicano ’25 moderated the First Generation Perspectives Panel at, which featured panelists Riley Wolfe ’25, Elvis Marin ’26, Associate Professor of
Psychology Carin Perilloux, and Director of the Professor John Score II Learning
Commons Maurice Wilson as part of First Generation College Celebration Week 2024.
October 2024
Professor of Psychology Traci Giuliano published an article with several current SU
undergraduates, including Georgia Micknal (first author) ’25, Samantha Gonzales ’26, Lauren
Levee ’27, Gabrielle Fullard ’27, and Kalista Esquivel ’26. The article is titled “(Don’t) hit me up:
The effects of initiator gender and setting on perceptions of date initiation” and will be published
in the December issue of the North American Journal of Psychology.
September 2024
Recent graduate Ian Klepcyk ’24 and Professor of Psychology Fay Guarraci published one of two
submitted entries in the Encyclopedia of Sexual Psychology and Behavior, published by Springer.

--- Page 6 of 20 ---

This entry also includes videos Ian filmed in the lab as a companion to the written submission. The
entry can be read here.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
June 2024
Associate Professor of Psychology Carin Perilloux and her students, Lainey
Gutierrez ’25, Jaxson Haynes ’25, Maryn Medlock ’25, Cassidy Reynolds ’25, and Lauren
Sanders ’24, presented a poster titled “Developing the Self-Perceived Parental Effort Scale (SPES)”
at the annual convention of the Association for Psychological Science in San Francisco, CA on May
25.
May 2024
Professor of Psychology Traci Giuliano has a chapter entitled, “Making Personal Connections with
Social Psychology,” appearing in the forthcoming book (to be published in August), Teaching
Social Psychology.

--- Page 7 of 20 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
April 2024
French and psychology double major Sarah Woods ’21 is now a Ph.D. student at the University of
Utah, studying cognition and neural science in the department of psychology. She was recently
selected as a recipient of the prestigious and nationally competitive National Science Foundation
Graduate Research Fellowship. Congratulations to Sarah and her SU faculty champions who
prepared her for this next step!
Professor of Psychology Traci Giuliano published an article entitled “Successfully publishing with
undergraduate coauthors in psychology: Insights from faculty with top track records.” Coauthors
are former students Will Hebl ’23 and Jennifer Howell ’09. The article can be read here.
Several Psychology faculty members and students presented papers at the annual meeting of the
Southwestern Psychological Association in San Antonio. Professor of Psychology Traci
Giuliano and student Megan Muskara ’24, presented a poster titled “Identifying predictors of
the psychological benefits of travel.” Associate Professor of Psychology Carin Perilloux and
students Lainey Gutierrez ’25, Jaxson Haynes ’25, Maryn Medlock ’25, Cassidy Reynolds ’24,
and Lauren Sanders ’24 presented a poster titled “Developing the Self-Perceived Parental Effort
Scale (SPES).” Assistant Professor of Psychology Karen Lara and students Mara Strohl ’25, Paige
Chapman ’25, Tessa Elizondo ’24, Jessica Metcalf ’25, Hailey Brisco ’25, and Ashten
Wheeler ’25 presented a poster titled “Children’s and Adults’ Reasoning About How Expected
Wait Time Influences Preferences and Emotions.”

--- Page 8 of 20 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
October 2023
Professor of Psychology Traci Giuliano presented a poster titled, “Using ‘Personal Connections’
Writing Assignments in Introductory Psychology,” at the annual meeting of the Society for
Teaching of Psychology in Portland, Oregon, Oct 6-8.
Professor of Psychology Fay Guarraci was invited to give a talk at the symposium titled Gender
Incongruence at the 63rd annual meeting of the European Society of Pediatric Endocrinology in
den Hague, Netherlands, in September. The talk “Animal Models of Transgender Care: Advantages
and Drawbacks” was well received by a mostly clinical audience.
September 2023
Professor of Psychology Traci Giuliano published an article entitled, “How common is
undergraduate publication in psychology? An examination of faculty vitae from top colleges and
universities.”Coauthors are former students Will Hebl ’23 and Jennifer Howell ’09.

--- Page 9 of 20 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
August 2023
Associate Professor of Psychology Carin Perilloux has accepted an invitation to join the Editorial
Board of the interdisciplinary journal Evolutionary Studies in Imaginative Culture. This biannual
publication focuses on evolutionary approaches to sociocultural aspects of life such as the arts,
humanities, philosophy, history, and pop culture.
June 2023
Associate Professor of Psychology Carin Perilloux, along with alumni Alyssa Sucrese ’21, Erica
Burley ’22, Sarah Woods ’21, and Zach Bencal ’21, have published a paper titled “Just friends?
Jealousy of extramarital friendships” in the journal Evolutionary Behavioral Sciences (after nearly a
year and a half ‘in press’!). This article is based on the group’s Capstone research.
Associate Professor of Psychology Carin Perilloux and alumna Sarah Woods ’21 presented a
poster titled “Parental Burden Predicts Jealousy in Married Individuals” at the annual meeting of
the Human Behavior and Evolution Society (HBES) in Palm Springs, CA, at the beginning of June.
This work reflects Sarah’s capstone research at SU (she is currently in graduate school at the
University of Utah).

--- Page 10 of 20 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
March 2023
Associate Professor of Psychology Carin Perilloux and students Madeline Bollinger ’24, Laurel
Mulkey ’24, and Vy Nguyen ’23 presented a poster titled “Calm Yourself Up? Converse Effects of
ASMR on Heart Rate and GSR” at the annual meeting of the Society of Personality and Social
Psychology (SPSP) in Atlanta this past weekend. This reflects work completed during SCOPE 2022.
Feburary 2023
Professor of Psychology Traci Giuliano and psychology major Will Hebl ’23 presented a poster
entitled “How Common is Undergraduate Publication in Psychology” at the annual meeting of the
Society for Personality and Social Psychology in Atlanta, Georgia, this past weekend.
Professor of Psychology Traci Giuliano recently delivered a “Guest Expert Webinar” for the
National Center for Faculty Development and Diversity. Her presentation was titled “Lessons

--- Page 11 of 20 ---

Learned from Two Decades of Publishing with Undergraduates.” The NCFDD’s mission is to
provide underrepresented faculty at member schools with on-demand access to mentoring, tools,
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
and support to thrive in academia– including help with planning, productivity, healthy
relationships, and work-life balance.
Professor of Psychology Traci Giuliano participated at the 4th Annual College Readiness
Symposium (Breaking Barriers, Growing Generations) sponsored by the Austin ISD and held at St.
Edwards University on Saturday, Feb 11th. Dr. Giuliano gave two sessions of a presentation called
“A Professor’s Tips for Succeeding in College.”
January 2023
Professor of Psychology Fay Guarraci and current students Megan Kelly ’23, Amanda Gale ’23,
Jasmine Belfield ’23, and Natalie Williams ’25, as well as alums Layla Avendano ’22, Cler Estoestra
’22, Brooke Frohock ’21, Lily Yepez ’22, and Bernard Sencherey ’22, recently published the article
“Chronic periadolescent leuprolide exposure affects the development of reproductive physiology
and behavior of female and male rats differently, but both mature after treatment termination” in
Biology of Sex Differences.

--- Page 12 of 20 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
September 2022
Professor of Psychology Traci Giuliano published an article titled “A Three-Pronged Approach for
Teaching Psychology Students to Understand and Avoid Plagiarism” in Teaching of Psychology.
August 2022
Professor of Psychology Fay Guarraci coauthored an article with Layla Avendano ’22, Isabel
Candelario ’21, Cler Estoesta ’22, Brooke Frohock ’21, Kate Davis ’20, Megan Kelly ’23, Matt
Oevermann ’21, Bernard Sencherey ’22, Erin Toro ’21, and Hannah Valdivia ’22 that was
accepted for publication by Physiology & Behavior.The project, titled “Daily GnRH Agonist
Treatment Effectively Delayed Puberty in Female Rats without Long-Term Effects on Sexual
Behavior or Estrous Cyclicity,” was supported by a grant from the American Psychological
Foundation. Part of the work also was supported by SCOPE funding.
May 2022
Allison Hewett ’22, Vy Nguyen ’22, and Associate Professor of Psychology Carin
Perilloux presented a poster at the Western Psychological Association 102nd Annual Convention,

--- Page 13 of 20 ---

held April 27–May 1 in Portland, Oregon. This poster, titled “Who Gets the Tingles? Modeling
ASMR Predictors,” represents their work during SCOPE 2021.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
April 2022
Professor of Psychology Traci Giuliano’s article “High Impact: Examining Predictors of Faculty-
Undergraduate Coauthored Publication and Presentation in Psychology” was published in the
journal PLOS ONE. All three coauthors, Isham Kimbell ’21, Emily Olsen ’20, and Jennifer
Howell ’09, were current or former undergraduates at the time the research was conducted.
March 2022
Alumna Alyssa Sucrese ’21, Associate Professor of Psychology Carin Perilloux, and current
student Erica Burley ’22 presented a poster titled “Just Friends? Jealousy Attributions for
Extramarital Friendships” at the 2022 Society for Personality and Social Psychology Annual
Convention, held virtually and in person February 16–19.

--- Page 14 of 20 ---

Associate Professor of Psychology Carin Perilloux, along with collaborator Jaime Cloud of
Western Oregon University, published two articles in the latest issue of the peer-reviewed
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
journal Evolutionary Behavioral Sciences: “This Old Thing? Responding to Compliments Depends
on Sex and Relative Status” and “The Relationship between Mating Context and Women’s
Appearance Enhancement Strategies.”
September 2021
Professor of Psychology Fay Guarraci was recently awarded the American Psychological
Foundations 2021 Division 1–Society for General Psychology Mary Whiton Calkins Grant. The
grant will support research on the development of an animal model of puberty delay and gender-
affirming hormone treatment to better understand the long-term outcomes of puberty
suppression and adult hormone treatment in the context of gender transition. Mary Whiton
Calkins was the first woman to preside as president of the American Psychological Association in
1905.
Professor of Psychology Fay Guarraci recently published an article that was a collaboration across
three countries investigating the patterning of male sexual behavior in two strains of rats. The
article, “Male Rat Sexual Behavior: Insights from Inter-Copulatory Intervals,” was published
in Behavioral Processesthis month.

--- Page 15 of 20 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
August 2021
Associate Professor of Psychology Carin Perilloux has accepted a position on the editorial board
of the new Journal of Social Psychology Research ( JSPR ) . JSPR is a fully open-access journal that
functions as an outlet for pioneering integrative frameworks toward existing social psychology
theories and concepts. This journal aims to deliver theoretical and empirical papers based on
interpersonal relationships at the level of individuals and social groups. The editors encourage
submissions on substantial interdisciplinary research on the theory, content, models, directions
and problems of social psychology developments.
July 2021
Assistant Professor of Psychology Carin Perilloux and her capstone students, Zack
Bencal ’21, Erica Burley ’22, Alyssa Sucrese ’21, Sarah Woods ’21, and Michael Vitullo ’20,
presented a poster titled “Just Friends? An Evolutionary Perspective on Jealousy and Extramarital
Friendships” at the (virtual) annual meeting of the Human Behavior and Evolution Society on June
25, 2021. Their poster was selected as one of the 12 finalists in the conference poster competition.
You can watch Perilloux’s three-minute poster talk here. A copy of the poster is available here.
Assistant Professor of Psychology Karen Lara had an article titled “This Is Not What I Expected:
The Impact of Prior Expectations on Children’s and Adults’ Preferences and Emotions” recently

--- Page 16 of 20 ---

published in the journal Developmental Psychology.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
April 2021
Associate Professor of Psychology Erin Crockett ’05, Tyler Norman ’20, and Monique Pollmann
(Tilburg University) published the article “Reading between the Lines: The Effects of Texting on
Relationship Satisfaction and Understanding in Romantic Couples” in Computers in Human
Behavior Reports.
Assistant Professor of Political Science Emily Sydnor was a panelist, presenter, chair, and
discussant for several sessions at the (virtual) Midwest Political Science Association Annual
Meeting. The highlights included presenting her work on students’ physiological reactions to
controversial speech on campus, a collaborative project with Emily Tesmer ’20 and Associate
Professor of Psychology Erin Crockett ’05, and participating in a roundtable on “Polarization,
Animosity, and Violence in American Politics.” Senior political science major Emily Gilby ’21 also
presented her honors thesis, “Institutional Barriers to Youth Voter Turnout,” at the conference.

--- Page 17 of 20 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
January 2021
Assistant Professor of Psychology Carin Perilloux, along with collaborator Jaime Cloud of
Western Oregon University, had two articles recently accepted for publication in the
journal Evolutionary Behavioral Sciences: “The Relationship between Mating Context and Women’s
Appearance Enhancement Strategies and “This Old Thing? Responding to Compliments Depends
on Sex and Relative Status.”
November 2020
Associate Professor of Psychology Erin Crockett published an article with colleagues in the
Netherlands titled “Does Attachment Style Moderate the Effect of Computer-Mediated versus
Face-to-Face Conflict Discussions?” The article was published in the journal Personal
Relationships. For more information, click here .
October 2020
Kate Davis ’20 and Hannah Hanson ’22 conducted a SCOPE project under the supervision of
Professor of Psychology Fay Guarraci, which was recently published in Physiology & Behavior.
This collaboration also involved Jessica Bolton ’10, who will soon begin a tenure-track position at

--- Page 18 of 20 ---

Georgia State University. Davis, a current graduate student in the Department of Neuroscience at
The University of Texas at Austin, designed the project, and together, the team found that using
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
an animal model of poverty caused long-term deleterious effects on reproductive physiology and
behavior. Neonatal poverty disrupted maternal behavior, which accelerated physiological
maturation in females but delayed sexual maturation in males. However, both male and female
rats displayed enhanced sexual motivation. These results have implications for precocious sexual
behavior and disrupted puberty in children who are born into poverty. This research was also
supported by a Sam Taylor Award.
Recent alumni Maryam Ali ’20, Michael Broyle ’20, Kate Davis ’20, Chantal Gonzalez ’19,
Devon Lucero ’19, and Lainey Stary ’19 and Professor of Psychology Fay Guarraci published a
new research project investigating the long-term effects of neonatal exposure to a component of
soy (genistein) on male and female reproductive physiology and behavior in the journal
Behavioural Pharmacology. Although this research was conducted in rats, it suggests that there
may be some consequences of feeding neonates soy-based formula.
September 2020
For the first time, members of Professor of Psychology Fay Guarraci’s team of researchers, the
Guarraci Lab, had two articles accepted for publication as companion papers in the journal
Pharmacology, Biochemistry, and Behavior. These two papers reflect a collaboration between the
Guarraci Lab and Sarah Meerts from Carleton College and her student. The SU coauthors include
current psychology major Shannon Odell ’20; recent psychology graduates Kate Davis ’20, Wes
Clemmons ’20, and Beth Henneman ’20; Maryam Ali ’19 (biology); as well as alumnae
Chantal Gonzalez ’19 (psychology) and Devon Lucero ’19 (animal behavior). The first article is

--- Page 19 of 20 ---

titled “I. Antidepressants and Sexual Behavior: Weekly Ketamine Injections Increases Sexual
Behavior Initially in Female and Male Rats.” This work was supported by multiple SCOPE awards
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
and a Sam Taylor Award. The second article is titled “II: Antidepressants and Sexual Behavior:
Acute Fluoxetine, but not Ketamine, Disrupts Paced Mating Behavior in Sexually Experienced
Female Rats.”
March 2020
Assistant Professor of Psychology Carin Perilloux presented a poster with her collaborator Dr.
Jaime Cloud (Western Oregon University) at the evolutionary psychology pre-conference at the
annual meeting of the Society of Personality and Social Psychology (SPSP) in New Orleans, LA.
You can download an image of the poster, “Women with Attractive Faces Want it All,” here.
Daniela Beckelhymer ’20 and Emily Thompson ’22 presented “Who Feels the Tingles? The
Emotional Side of ASMR” at the emotion pre-conference with Assistant Professor of
Psychology Carin Perilloux at the annual meeting of the Society of Personality and Social
Psychology (SPSP) in New Orleans, LA. This poster is based on work completed on a 2019 SCOPE
project.

--- Page 20 of 20 ---

Associate Professor of Psychology Erin Crockett presented a poster with students MacKenzie
Maddox ’19, Athena Pinero ’20, and Aaron Mink ’21 titled “Is Emotional Suppression All Bad?
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
The Consequences Associated with Suppressing Negative and Positive Emotions” at the annual
meeting of the Society of Personality and Social Psychology (SPSP) in New Orleans, LA. This
research was the result of a faculty-student research project in the summer of 2019.
Professor of Psychology Traci Giuliano presented a poster titled “A 3-Pronged Approach for
Teaching Psychology Students to Understand and Avoid Plagiarism” at the teaching pre-
conference of the annual meeting of the Society of Personality and Social Psychology (SPSP) in
New Orleans, LA.
Feburary 2020
Professor of Psychology Fay Guarraci, Chantal Gonzalez ’19, Devon Lucero’19, Kate Davis’20,
and Sarah Meerts, an associate professor of neuroscience and psychology at Carleton College,
published a longitudinal study in the journal Current Aging Science titled “Sexual Behavior Is
Enhanced by Regular, Repeated Mating Behavior from Young Adulthood to Middle Age in Female
Long-Evans Rats.”