--- Page 1 of 2 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
FOR CURRENT STUDENTS
Psi Chi
Psi Chi in a Nutshell
Psi Chi is the National Honor Society in Psychology. Students who meet the criteria are invited to
become members of the chapter at the school where they are enrolled. Psi Chi chapters are
operated by student officers and faculty advisors. Together they induct the members and carry out
the goals of the Society. All chapters register their inductees at the national office, where the
membership records are preserved for reference purposes. The total number of memberships
preserved at the national office during the first 65 years is over 270,000. Many of these members
have gone an to distinguished careers in psychology.
Psi Chi’s Purpose
To advance the science of psychology and to encourage, stimulate, and maintain scholarship of the
individual members in all fields, particularly in psychology. The aims of Psi Chi are summarized in
two Greek words: Psyche, suggesting “mind” or scholarship, symbolizes enrichment of the mind;
Cheires, meaning “hands,” symbolizes fellowship and research.
Historical Background
Founded in 1929, Psi Chi is a member of the Association of College Honor Societies and is an
affiliate of the American Psychological Association (APA) and the American Psychological Society
(APS). Psi Chi’s sister honor society is Psi Beta, the national honor society in psychology for
community and junior colleges. Psi Chi has over 840 chapters in the United States, with a national
office in Chattanooga Tennessee. The national organization holds national and regional conventions
annually in conjunction with the psychological associations, as well as holding research award
competitions, and certificate recognition programs. Also, the Society publishes a quarterly Psi Chi

--- Page 2 of 2 ---

Newsletter which helps to unite the members as well as to inform and recognize their contributions
and MacecnoumplisShemarecnhts. Apply Visit Majors & Minors
GEORGETOWN, TEXAS
512.863.6511
CONTACT