--- Page 1 of 6 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
MAJORS & MINORS
Psychology
Immerse yourself in the fascinating and multifaceted science of the mind.
Carin Perilloux
Associate Professor of Psychology & Chair
EEMMAAIILL CCAALLLL

--- Page 2 of 6 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Majoring or minoring in psychology will help you understand the workings of the brain in its
complex control of behavior, emotion, and cognition. At Southwestern, you’ll have the opportunity
to explore a range of provocative questions, including
How do we influence others, and how do they influence us?
How do people learn, remember, and make decisions?
How do such factors as human evolution, individual personalities, neurotransmitters, and
hormones shape behavior?
How do behaviors, emotions, and cognitions change across the lifespan?
How do psychological processes and outcomes differ among individuals and groups from
different social classes or cultural backgrounds?
What factors influence sexual attraction and relationships?
How are mental disorders classified, diagnosed, and treated?

--- Page 3 of 6 ---

What role do psychologists play in criminal investigations and court cases?
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
You’ll also apply the knowledge you develop in coursework to high-impact learning experiences.
For example, our students conduct novel, high-quality scientific research. They engage in
internships with local schools, hospitals, police departments, and nonprofits. And based on these
experiences, they’ve presented their research at national and international scientific conferences
and coauthored scientific publications with faculty on such topics as the neural development of
reproductive physiology and behavior, sexuality and relationships, and evolutionary psychology. By
majoring or minoring in psychology, you’ll be prepared not only for top-ranked graduate programs
but also for a wide range of careers, from medicine and veterinary science to marketing and
business.
Statement on Social Justiceaspires to be a community centered on justice, and it does not condone,
nor will it tolerate hate acts or speech. We the Faculty of the Department of Psychology support
this position in affirming our shared belief in the equality of rights of all people regardless of
gender, sexual orientation, race, ethnicity, age, or religion.
AFTER SOUTHWESTERN
Featured Alumni Stories

--- Page 4 of 6 ---

THEATRE
Southwestern Alumna Achieves Career Dreams Through New York Arts
Program
Theatre and psychology double major Camille Krumwiede ’22 is showcasing skills learned at
Southwestern through internships at And Just Like That… and Atlantic Pictures.
READ FULL STORY
EXPLORE SOUTHWESTERN
Psychology News
SSEEEE FFUULLLL LLIISSTT
 
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors

--- Page 5 of 6 ---

Southwestern Students Alexandria Glenn ’26 and Zaria Renfro ’28 Earn
Prestigious Gilman Scholarships for Summer Study Abroad Experiences
Glenn will study language and culture in Rome with IES Abroad while Renfro will travel to three
countries with the SU European Cultural Explorations program.
READ FULL STORY
 
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors

--- Page 6 of 6 ---

GEORGETOWN, TEXAS
512.863.6511
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
CONTACT