--- Page 1 of 20 ---

southwestern.edu
Capstone
28–36 minutes
The Capstone in Environmental Studies is intended to bring
together the key learning objectives that faculty expect their
students to have learned during the course of study. The course
examines specific issues related to Environmental Studies,
performing research along a pressing theme.
The Environmental Studies Program encourages students to
analyze a local or regional environmental issue from
multiple perspectives, and notably, encourages some element of
environmental activism or community engagement. The hope is
that students will engage in a research project that will allow them
to gain experience, research skills, and communication skills
necessary to succeed in a professional or academic field.
Research Projects
Housing Affordability and Sustainability for Generation Z in Austin
(Fall 2024)
Project Summary: Many members of Generation Z view
homeownership, especially in North America’s most desirable
cities, as utterly unattainable. Due to this sentiment, this capstone
paper explains the connections between economics, policy,

--- Page 2 of 20 ---

accessibility, justice, and environmental issues surrounding
housing for Gen Z. Because of our proximity to Austin and
because Austin continues to be one of the most attractive large
cities in the U.S. for Gen Z workers, capstone students chose the
city of Austin as a case study to help focus their research. The
goal of their research is to empower Gen Z with the knowledge to
make choices regarding the housing market, as well as provide
practical recommendations for different ways members of Gen Z
and people of all ages can become involved in their communities
to improve access to affordable and sustainable housing for all.
Completed By: A.J. Evanczyk, Michael Purdom, Rose Reed,
Sophia Trifilio, Sarah Ventimiglia, Hailey Vickich
From Blueprint To Greenprint: Sustainable Recommendations For
The SU 560 Project (Fall 2024)
Project Summary: In 2022,(SU)
announced its plan to develop more than 560 acres of land
adjacent to its historic campus, a project that will require many
years and millions of dollars in investment from the University. This
project needs to consider advancements in ecological and social
welfare in combination with economic benefits. While recognizing
the importance of development, several practices should be
incorporated into the 560 Project’s plan to promote environmental,
economic, and social welfare. This report proposes a set of best
practices that capstone students have deemed most beneficial,
effective, and feasible to ensure that the 560
Project is accomplished such that it not only mitigates
environmental harm but also promotes ecological harmony.

--- Page 3 of 20 ---

Completed By: Logan Ferguson, Meredith Lannan, Isabella
Moore, Sydney Strange, Brianna Westmoreland, Abby White,
Blaine ten Wolde
The ecological, economic, and cultural impacts of Eastern Oyster
population decline: a case study of the Texas Coast (Fall 2023)
Project Summary: Oysters help maintain stable marine conditions
by filtering water, regulating nutrients, protecting surrounding
habitats from wave disturbances, and stabilizing the structure of
the physical environment. This species supports fish, crabs,
invertebrates, other macrofauna, and microfauna. While it has
been largely overlooked, the decline in Eastern Oyster numbers is
becoming one of the most pressing environmental concerns in
Texas’ fisheries today. The current population’s declining health
will impact not only the direct market but also other fundamental
coastal industries. To properly understand the issues with the
management of the oyster population, this case study examines
the environmental, economic, and social aspects of the Texas
Coast.
Completed By: Delaney Anthony, Claire Haughey, Oliver
Johnson, Lauren Plowman, Emery Stobaugh, and Catherine Yow
A Peek Beneath the Surface of Texas Groundwater Use (Fall
2023)
Project Summary: Texas cities rely on groundwater in an
abundance of ways, from human culture to agriculture. Over the
past decade, groundwater stores in Central Texas have been on a

--- Page 4 of 20 ---

notable decline, with iconic spring-fed landmarks such as Jacob’s
Well in Wimberly consecutively going dry in the summers of 2022
and 2023. Of course, the state of water security in Central Texas is
not tied to one source, but has interlocking roots in the political,
social, and geologic conditions of its inhabitants. Using the recent
partnership between Georgetown and EPCOR as a case study,
capstone students examine how the private acquisition and
distribution of groundwater in Central Texas has evolved in the
twenty-first century, and how our changing relationship to
groundwater manifests in legislation, the environment, and our
affected communities, both urban and rural.
Completed By: Jackson Legrande, Mace Wages, Max Mazoch,
Raquel Kurth
Urban Ecological Infrastructure for Stormwater Irrigation on a
College Campus (Fall 2022)
Project Summary: This paper explores the effects of Urban
Environmental Infrastructure (UEI), Blue Infrastructure (BI), and
Green Infrastructure (GI) on college campuses to maximize water
quality and health at universities and within their general
watershed regions. Throughout this paper, students outlined how
university campuses are a prime example of institutions
experiencing growth at levels that negatively impact surrounding
watersheds. Students propose recommendations to use these
ecologically friendly infrastructures, including bioretention
practices, permeable pavements, and swales on university
campuses.in Georgetown, Texas, is a
primary focus of this paper due to it being an effective candidate

--- Page 5 of 20 ---

for implementing these infrastructures as well as the development
of the currently empty 500-acre plot of land.
Completed By: Ceanna Cooksey, Emily Funk, Anthony Garcia,
Gabrielle Garza, Jaime Hotaling, Krista Kelly, Sarah Parks,
Katherine Stothoff, Alex Thompson
Uncovering the Truth about Recycling: Scaling down Recycling’s
Impact to(Fall 2022)
Project Summary: This research paper aims to better understand
the state of the current American recycling system. Key attention is
paid to 1) accessibility and education in relation to recycling
services, 2) behaviors and attitudes regarding the practice of
recycling, and 3) the environmental justice and economic
implications of the practice of recycling. In combination with the
above background research, these capstone students
administered acampus-wide survey that
aimed to analyze connections between recycling rates and
individual demographics of students, faculty, and staff. This paper
also connects past and current education about recycling and
recycling practices, recycling habits and behaviors, and additional
related factors.
Completed By: Megan Crinklaw, Alexis Guajardo, Sydney
Kattawar, Abby McGee
Below the Surface: An examination of health effects of
Cyanotoxins and surrounding policy in Central Texas (Fall 2022)
Project Summary: Toxin-producing algae blooms known as

--- Page 6 of 20 ---

cyanobacteria are becoming increasingly prevalent in our
waterways. Cyanobacteria can produce toxins that can affect
various parts of the body. For example, different species of
cyanobacteria can produce toxins that can damage the liver
(hepatotoxins), affect the central nervous system (neurotoxins),
and produce toxins that affect the renal system and
gastrointestinal tract. In this paper, students inquire into the
prevalence of cyanobacteria concerning animal and human health.
Furthermore, students investigate the lack of cyanobacteria
mitigative policy implementation in local waterways.
Completed By: Garrison Engstrom, Dawson Gonzales, Samuel
Irizarry, Chloe Penrod, Chase Thinger
A (Un)Democratic Petrostate: Oil Wealth, Corruption, and
Exploitation in Texas (Fall 2021)
Project Summary: In a country with such high levels of
consumption, Texas stands out as a principal source of energy
production. Texas is recognized as the top producer of oil and gas
within the country. This has led to a complicated and intertwined
relationship between oil production, the state economy, and a
Texas culture dedicated to the spirit of the frontier. Through
manipulating this culture and making oil seem thoroughly more
relevant to the national identity and economy than it actually is, the
Texas Railroad Commission has continued to exploit Texans and
increase their authority in an undemocratic means. This article
further examines the ways in which the Texas Railroad
Commission has shaped Texas as a petrostate through means
that can be described as anti-democratic. It will draw from theories

--- Page 7 of 20 ---

of political ecology, authoritarianism, petropolitics, necropolitics,
and environmental justice in order to argue that the Texas Railroad
Commission has played an active role in degrading the air, water,
and land quality of Texas in ways that are detrimental to already
underrepresented Texans.
Sustainable Residence Hall Design and Construction: A Proposal
for(Fall 2021)
Project Summary: Southwestern’s Tactical and Master plans
propose a new residential hall to be built in the near future, and
with these exciting new developments comes an opportunity to
renew its position as a leader in sustainable campus living. It is
crucial that universities not only aim to promote sustainable
campus infrastructure, but also work to produce graduates who
understand the importance of integrating sustainability into every
aspect of their lives. This report relies upon the diverse literature
on green building practices and sustainable design, while also
drawing from real world examples and case studies from other
institutions of higher education. In this report, students organize
their findings in six key themes: (1) Green Building Certifications,
(2) Sustainable Building Materials, (3) Sustainable Design and
Innovation, (4) Inclusive Housing, (5) Student Engagement and
Retention, and (6) Educating Students.
Completed By: Sage Clay, Olivia Gray, Brooke Guthrie, Darcy
Hansen, Cameron Mathis, Ricky Olivares, Keith Rupe, Megan
Schlab, Nicole Rajtak
U.S. Agriculture in the Age of COVID-19: From Farm to Fork (Fall

--- Page 8 of 20 ---

2020)
Project Summary: The American food sector has consistently
struggled to meet the nutritional demands of the entire American
populace while also protecting the well-being of its employees and
the environment. This can be attributed to a number of factors,
chief among them income inequality, inefficiency in the supply
chain, and worker vulnerability. COVID-19 brought new challenges
to the food sector, spurring changes in consumer behavior, public
health guidelines, and working conditions, as well as exacerbating
already existing problems. Given the need to fortify the food sector
against future crises, this paper seeks to explore the effects of the
COVID-19 pandemic on the U.S. agricultural supply chain at four
key stages: farming, processing, retail, and consumer/public
health, or from “farm to fork.” This paper uses a food justice lens,
with a focus on waste, labor, and access, to review the many
impacts of COVID-19 on the U.S. food supply chain and suggest
potential avenues for future research.
Completed By: Nissi Frutos, Ethan Hendrix, Leah Horick, Sophia
Potempa,
Abby Prilliman, Sam Ramon, and Emmett Tassin
#BeeSouthwestern: Bee Campus USA Certification & Pollinator
Protection at(Fall 2019)
Project Summary: Bee Campus USA is an initiative of the Xerces
Society for Invertebrate Conservation that provides recognition for
universities in the U.S. that are committed to preserving local
biodiversity through protecting native pollinator habitats, limiting

--- Page 9 of 20 ---

the use of synthetic pesticides, and engaging in public awareness
initiatives. Students found that Southwestern had already met a
majority of the requirements for Bee Campus USA. With the
absorption of Bee Campus USA duties into the Sustainability
Committee, the installation of signage and planting of seeds and
starter plants by this group, the creation of a Bee Campus USA
webpage on the SU website, the requirements of certification will
be met, and the certification will be renewed annually by the
Sustainability Committee.
Completed By: Samantha Buehler ’20, Karonech Chreng ’20,
Katey Ewton ’20, Spencer Kleypas ’20, Abigail Lloyd ’20
• Southwestern Becomes the 87th Bee Campus USA (Campus
News)
• Southwestern’s online presence for Bee Campus USA activities
Green Building Practices at Small Liberal Arts Universities: A Case
Study of(Fall 2019)
Project Summary: Green building and building certification have
mostly positive environmental impacts, but occasionally fail to
impose those meaningful changes. Each certification has its
benefits and limitations. Pioneering this movement, many
universities across the world have signed declarations that require
campuses to build their sustainable initiatives. To address these
initiatives, universities commonly pursue green building
certifications, such as LEED, WELL, and Living Building
Challenge. A building does not need to be certified to be
sustainable or well-built, but certification ensures a level of

--- Page 10 of 20 ---

accountability due to the third-party assessment of the project to
evaluate its adherence to the standards created. Research and
findings are presented and used to create a document of
recommendations for improving green building on college
campuses around the U.S. A list specifically for Southwestern is
provided with outcomes to fit the SU experience.
Completed By: Kathryn Caudell ’19, Lois Durant ’20, Zane
McDurham ’20, Dominique Rosario ’20, Anthony Trefny ’20
Improving Water Sustainability Through Rainwater Catchment
Systems (Fall 2018)
Project Summary: Water scarcity has become a serious problem
across the world due to increased demand from urbanization,
more frequent droughts, and changes in climate patterns. Higher
education institutions can implement water conservation efforts
due to community-driven initiatives. Students believe that
implementing a rainwater catchment irrigation system on campus
with the six pre-existing rainwater catchment tanks would achieve
water efficiency and conservation goals while allowing
Southwestern to become more sustainable in multiple forms.
Rainwater irrigation would not only socially, environmentally, and
economically benefit the school but could also be used as an
educational tool to strengthen water conservation awareness in
the community. Our campus’s commitment to improving efforts to
achieve greater water efficiency, conservation, and management
can be utilized as a marketing tool while cost-effectively
maintaining the aesthetic appeal of our campus for generations to
come.

--- Page 11 of 20 ---

Completed By: Isabel Calleja ’19, Daniela de Souza ’19, Hayley
Donnelly ’19, Taite Drews-Jones ’19, Elizabeth Farwell ’19, Ryan
Moriarty ’19, Logan Spalding ’19
Examining the Role of Activism & Action in American College
Campuses (Fall 2018)
Project Summary: Activism on college campuses has a long
history, and within recent years, highly visible student protests
surrounding issues such as income inequality, police brutality,
indigenous rights, sexual assault, and climate change have gained
significant media attention. Although universities often bring
together elements that allow student activism to flourish, they also
present their own set of internal challenges. With every graduating
class, student activist groups contend with changing leadership,
reduced membership, and the potential loss of institutional
memory. The history of student resistance, conflict, and activism
may be erased from, or in some cases co-opted by official
institutional records. This creates the challenge of passing
knowledge down, along with significant hurdles for any kind of
ongoing activist work. This paper responds to this ongoing loss of
institutional knowledge by chronicling a counter-history of student
and faculty commitment to activism at.
Using archival and quantitative research, including interviews with
faculty, staff, students, and alumni, interactions between different
activist movements on campus, and identifying specific barriers to
student activism at SU.
Completed By: Claire Bressette ’19, Sean Carroll ’19, Hannah
Winkler ’19, Miranda Wolk ’19, Simone Yoxall ’19

--- Page 12 of 20 ---

Intersectional sustainability and student activism: A framework for
achieving social sustainability on university campuses (Fall 2017)
Project Summary: In recent decades, universities have made
significant progress toward environmental sustainability and have
likewise tightened their budgets and economic models in the name
of financial sustainability. Although institutions of higher education
have failed to address issues of social sustainability and social
injustice, which are both increasing in number and severity on
college campuses. The article takes a student activist perspective
toward university sustainability, with particular reaffirmation of the
social sustainability pillar, which can empower students and their
allies to raise awareness about the causes of these issues and
allow a more constructive environment for collaborative
approaches and policy formation on campuses around the world.
Completed By: Keara Hudler ’18, Lilly Dennis ’18, Nataley Ford
’18, Joanna Mendez ’18, Muriel DiNella ’18
• The research was published in the journal Education, Citizenship,
and Social Justice
• The published research paper won a 2020 AASHE Campus
Sustainability Research Award
A Contemporary History of Georgetown’s Switch to Renewable
Energy Turning a Red County Green (Fall 2017)
Project Summary: With 150-megawatt solar power and 144-
megawatt wind power agreements, Georgetown Utility Systems
became one of the largest renewable-sourced municipally-owned
utilities in the United States. As a city with a well-known reputation

--- Page 13 of 20 ---

for conservative politics, Georgetown complicates the assumption
that support for renewable energy is a progressive
environmentalist position. This paper aims to create a
contemporary history of Georgetown’s switch to renewable energy.
Topics in this article include an analysis of the political economy of
Texas renewable energy, an explanation of the cultural, economic,
and logistical context of Georgetown’s decision to switch to
renewable energy, and a discussion of whether or not Georgetown
may serve as an example to other municipalities weighing the
decision to go green.
Completed By: Peri Kincaid ’18, Carly Ammel ’18, Lucas Evans
’18, Zoya Goodwin ’18, and Crystal Webster ’18is Branching Out: Achieving Tree
Campus USA Certification (Spring 2017)
Project Summary: The Tree Campus USA initiative is a
nationwide certification for college campuses through the Arbor
Day Foundation. After reviewing the impact of establishing a Tree
Campus USA certification on colleges and universities around the
nation, the group has worked to addto
the Arbor Day Foundation’s list of national Tree Campus USA
members. Over a hundred colleges and universities have made
the promise to take steps forward to improve the health of their
campus by maintaining the proper health of their existing trees and
creating a “fallow ground” for new ones. For SU, the opportunity to
foster stewardship within the campus community, effectively
implement the Tree Campus USA standards, and raise awareness
for tree health and sustainability will also connect the campus with

--- Page 14 of 20 ---

the surrounding Georgetown community. To acquire this
certification, five standards were completed: creating a campus
tree advisory committee; establishing a campus tree-care plan;
producing a campus tree program with dedicated annual
expenditures; hosting an Arbor Day observance; and completing a
service-learning project
Completed By: Rebeca Huteson ’17, Alex Morris ’17, Colleen
Nair ’17, Olivia Ruane ’17, and Vallery Rusu ’17
• Arbor Day Foundation Honorswith 2018
Tree Campus USA® Recognition (Campus News)
• The Arbor Day Foundation Program Honorswith a 2019 Tree Campus USA Award (Campus News)Earns Its Fourth Tree Campus Higher
Education® Recognition (Campus News)
• Southwestern’s online presence for Tree Campus Higher
Education activities
Sustaining the Southwestern Ecological Laboratory (Spring 2017)
Project Summary: The 25-acre Southwestern Ecolab was
established in 2014 to provide students in the science and
environmental fields with practical, field-based experiences in an
interactive environment. Since then, the Ecolab has faced several
challenges, including a lack of maintenance and a history of poor
management. Additionally, it lacked a clear curricular structure and
walking path, decreasing accessibility of the site. These issues
combined prevented the formalization of this space and associated
classes into the Southwestern curriculum. The group’s goals were

--- Page 15 of 20 ---

to: clean up the Ecolab by removing trash from the site and
improving accessibility to the lab itself; identify invasive species
and create a species distribution model of one of those species
using GIS to create a protocol for future control; develop a
curricular structure for Ecolab; secure grant money to continue
funding projects; and create a land management and protocol plan
to provide guidelines for future research and classroom use.
Completed By: Zach Brown ’17, Daniel Buffington ’17, Dori
Cresanta ’17, Thomas Gromatzky ’17, Sam Guess ’17, Hailey
Johnson ’17, Austyn Laird ’17, Anja Thomsen ’17, Farrell Stucky
’17, Garrett West ’17
Sustainability and Social Engagement (Spring 2016)
Project Summary: The Sustainability and Social Engagement
Group atset out to respond to two
research questions regarding the university’s sustainability efforts:
What connects and disconnects SU students to sustainability and
social activism? And how can community engagement with
sustainable practices and awareness of programs on campus be
increased? Students implemented a three-phase plan that began
with a review of the scholarly literature on university sustainability
and the implementation of a campus-wide sustainability survey.
The second phase involved a public relations campaign that
combined our findings from the literature with our survey results to
educate and inform the campus. The third phase involved a series
of presentations to university leaders to raise awareness about
student engagement with sustainability issues and the hope of
inspiring meaningful changes on campus.

--- Page 16 of 20 ---

Completed By: Heba Abdel-Rahim ’16, Egan Cornachione ’16,
Patrick Garza ’16, Bianca Perez ’16, and Dan Ross ’16
Sustainable Infrastructure for the Walzel Gymnasium (Spring
2016)
Project Summary: To introduce more sustainable practices to’s campus, this project will update the
lighting in the Walzel Gymnasium to reduce energy load and
increase efficiency. Specifically, this project is a student-organized,
student-directed effort to replace Walzel’s energy-inefficient
incandescent bulbs with more cost-effective and dynamic LED
lighting. The direct result of this transition will be a more secure
and environmentally-friendly athletic space for Southwestern’s
students and student-athletes. Even though Walzel gym is only a
small portion of the much larger Robertson facility, the proposed
lighting changes to this gym are expected to generate enough
savings for future capstone groups or the physical plant staff to
reinvest those savings into more lighting improvements in
Robertson over the next 2-3 years. This will ultimately cut the
operational costs of this aging building as well as serve as a
springboard for future renovations.
Completed By: Rachel Ehler ’16, Dakota McDurham ’16, Nick
Espino’16, Kron Heilman ’16, Dalton Teague ’16, and Aaron Moyer
’16
Strengthening the Community Garden (Spring 2016)
Project Summary: This project aimed to solidify the Southwestern

--- Page 17 of 20 ---

University Community Garden as a valuable and sustainable
institution of the campus community.Community Garden can be more fully integrated into the larger
goals for achieving sustainability to remain a competitive institution
of Higher Education, which “encourages contributions toward the
well-being of humanity”. TheCommunity
Garden is currently an undervalued asset that has historically
contributed greatly to that positive change. Founded in 2008, it has
been the site of countless projects and studies within the campus
community, helped feed the larger Georgetown community through
programs like Meals on Wheels, been designated as a wildlife
sanctuary, hosted several volunteer workday events, and has
contributed to the realization of several of’s core values.
Completed By: Chelsea Allen ’16, Gabby Hunt ’16, Kali Page ’16,
Benjamin Galindo ’16, Graig Brandley ’16, and Lauren Childers ’16
Establishing an SU Office of Sustainability (2015)
Project Summary: The research revealed an important pattern
among Institutions of Higher Education: colleges and universities
all over North America and abroad are prioritizing sustainability.
IHEs frequently have significant carbon footprints, and universities
should be responsible for reducing that footprint however possible.
Implementing this project will allow Southwestern to become a
leader among its peers. While Southwestern has enjoyed a great
deal of momentum from students, staff, and faculty, the lack of
centralized administrative support has led to projects that are often
limited and disjointed. Creating an Office of Sustainability would

--- Page 18 of 20 ---

address this and other challenges to reaching our potential.
Completed By: Cassandra Crabtree ’15, Adrienne Dodd ’15,
Brandee Knight ’15, Adriana Guadarrama Lee ’15, Travis Kurtz
’15, Jonathan Sandoval ’15, Keegan Taylor ’15, and Rachel Terry
’15
Interactive Memory: Chronicling Sustainability Efforts at
Southwestern (2015)
Project Summary: Faculty and staff are hired and retire from
positions, and students turn over every four years, creating an
ever-changing landscape. Each time this happens, valuable
knowledge is lost. To recover such information takes trial and error,
using valuable time that could be more efficiently spent on further
initiatives. To combat the loss of institutional knowledge at, an interactive map was created to
chronicle the past and present efforts of students, staff, and
faculty. It will serve as a tool for future projects, as well as help
alleviate the inefficiencies that occur within sustainability efforts at
Southwestern.
Completed By: Brandee Knight ’15
• SUstainability Campus Map
SUstainability Strategic Plan Proposal (2014)
Project Summary: Methods or measures for this study will include
data collection of current and past metrics of sustainability and
environmental awareness, including past carbon inventories, data
gathered for the President’s Climate Commitment report, the

--- Page 19 of 20 ---

Talloires campus-wide sustainability survey, and primary data
collection conducted by members of the capstone class. In
addition to writing a sustainability strategic plan, the capstone
cohort will draft proposals for sustainability initiatives that address
current and future needs. An overarching goal of this project is to
find the best means by which to promote Southwestern as a
symbol of environmental sustainability in Texas.
Completed By: Alec Bergerson ’14, Emma Davis 14, Kayla
Guentzel ’14, Kendall Guidroz ’14, Joseph Kyle ’14, Brandi Martin
’14, Kyle Mathis ’14, Thomas Newman ’14, Jessica Olson ’14,
Emily Pawelek ’14, Sarah Puffer ’14, Ashley Scott ’14, Connor
Smith ’14, Arielle Solcher ’14, and Austin Spraetz ’14
• SUstainability Strategic Plan (Results)
A Sustainable Austin is.. (2013)
Project Summary: This study attempts to gain a first glance into
how Austinites define sustainability in their city. Students asked
Austinites to complete the sentence “A sustainable Austin is…” to
determine what is most important to each citizen - information that
can be relayed to city leaders to assist in developing policy
measures that fit the needs and concerns of Austinites. This study
is built on the premise that public policy works best when it is built
upon clear feedback from an engaged citizenry. By providing a
platform for Austinites to define sustainability for their city, students
were able to gain some insight into that diverse vision.
Completed By: Audrey Calhoun ’13, Katie Campbell ’13, Elise
DiNuzzo ’13, Elizabeth Funk ’13, Liliana Galvez ’13, Austin Gentry
’13, Cate Jones ’13, and Grady Sampley ’13

--- Page 20 of 20 ---

• A Sustainable Austin Study - Toward a Public Understanding of
Sustainability in Austin (Results)
The Local Food Landscape in Central Texas: Access, Obstacles,
and Consumer Motivations (2012)
Project Summary: This capstone examines the specific issues
related to local food networks and sustainable agriculture in
Central Texas, providing historical information, a review of
scholarly literature, and methodologies necessary to justify and
carry out a study of local, sustainable food networks in Central
Texas. Through the process of background research and
development of a literature review of farm-direct markets, students
identified key trends and patterns that required further empirical
research. This proposal documents that process, suggesting a
qualitative mixed-methods approach that examines consumer
access and restrictions to local, sustainable food while also
investigating several trends of three Central Texas farmers’
markets.
Completed By: Katherine Castles ’12, Jillian Curran ’12, Harrison
Glaser ’12, Ellen Hoyer ’12, Whitney Moore ’12, Lisa Morse ’12,
Molly O’Hara ’12, and Ben Parafina ’12
• Farmers’ Market Survey & Price Comparison Study (Results)