--- Page 1 of 5 ---

southwestern.edu
Ecolab
6–8 minutes
Since its inception in the Fall of 2014, the Ecolab has focused on
chemical water quality analysis of the fluvial system in Ecolab.
Recently, the Ecolab has expanded to include a variety of projects
such as GIS, restoration work, and more. Ecolab is quickly
becoming a valuable program and asset for thecommunity as it allows for students from a variety of
academic interests and backgrounds to conduct environmental
field work in close proximity to campus. In this, students can easily
apply skills and knowledge gained in the classroom to field work of
their choosing. The following research themes are currently in
progress:
Water Chemistry
Since August 2014, Ecolab has performed water quality analysis
on samples collected following a significant rain event. Following
each rain event, water samples are collected from four different
locations in Ecolab; the cattail pond, stream, deer crossing, and
culvert. Current water quality analyses include pH, turbidity,
conductivity, chloride, nitrate, on-site pH, on-site dissolved oxygen,
and phosphorus tests.

--- Page 2 of 5 ---

Fauna
An ongoing project, Ecolab is developing a census of animals
through the use of GameCams. These cameras were obtained
following a grant awarded from the King Creativity Fund. Thus far,
the cameras have captured a variety of animals including: deer,
raccoons, armadillo, coyote, rabbit, and bobcat. Numerous other
signs of wildlife such as prints and snake-skins have been
observed. Students continue to work toward developing this
census along with analyzing patterns of animal movement
throughout Ecolab.
Flora
Ecolab is working to develop a biannual vegetation survey that will
identify and archive plants found within Ecolab. Students will also
categorize them as invasive or noninvasive to allow for removal of
invasive species.
Environmental History
Using Geographic Information Systems (GIS), students utilized
historic aerial photography to show land use change from 1941 to
present day. With this imagery, students showed how the fluvial
system had drastically changed with the addition of the cattail
pond and how the land use has shifted throughout time.
Follow this link to see the Map
GIS

--- Page 3 of 5 ---

In partnership with the GIS Labs, the Ecolab is has multiple
projects underway including, a historic analysis the land through
aerial photography, a fluvial model of the stream and pond
system,photosphere technology and create a virtual tour of
EcoLab.
Restoration
The overall goal for restoration of the Ecolab is to transform it into
a workable classroom space while maintaining a workable space
while maintain its research and pedagogical service. Restoration
plans include the continued removal of trash, trail creation and
maintenance, and promoting and protecting the area as an
ecological site. Additionally, restoration work will include the
cataloging and if possible removal of invasive species, and a plan
to contain and curb cattail growth. We will be replacing the
invasive species with native species. In terms of modifications, the
goal of turning the area into a workable space will include a few
updates. A primary goal of restoration work is to transform Ecolab
into a workable classroom space. This will be accomplished by
clearing and creating an area large enough to accommodate a
class without any negative impacts on the ecosystem.
COURSES
Ecolab Practicum
ENV49-301-01&02
The purpose of this course is to expose students to applications of
Environmental and Conservation Studies through (1)

--- Page 4 of 5 ---

environmental monitoring and (2) conservation/restoration
projects.
Students will participate in environmental monitoring - collecting,
analyzing and sharing information - from the Southwestern Ecolab.
In this course environmental monitoring encompasses a variety of
activities, including rigorous research and long-term surveillance.
This course examines management and policy issues relating to
conservation, while providing scientific background to understand
these issues. Students will organize in a semester long project
focusing on incremental progress in management of the
Southwestern Ecolab.
Students are expected to log hours of work in the Ecolab (3 hours
per week), maintain a course blog outlining experiences,
summarize assigned readings’ applications to Ecolab, and meet
biweekly to discuss progress and concepts.
Ecolab II: Research
ENV49-301-03&04
Prerequisites: EcoLab I
This course is an intensive research practicum in a collaborative
setting with faculty, fellow classmates, and introductory level
students of Ecolab I. This course draws from experiences in
Ecolab I and other coursework. Approach to study is expected to
be integrative, drawing from multiple fields and past work done in
the Ecolab. Students are expected to develop research questions,
perform literature reviews, test hypotheses, and draw conclusions.
At instructor’s discretion, it maybe required to have an external
faculty advisor for projects. Students are expected to be leaders in
the Ecolab, present work to the Southwestern community, write a

--- Page 5 of 5 ---

scholar report, and meet biweekly to discuss progress and
concepts.
PEOPLE
Faculty
• Romi Burks, Professor of Biology and Environmental Studies
• Laura Hobgood, Professor of Religion and Environmental Studies
• Joshua Long, Assistant Professor of Environmental Studies
• John Ore, Professor of Theatre
• Willis Weigand, Director of General Chemistry Labs
Current Students
• Simone Yoxall
• Keara Hudler
• Zane McDurham
Alumni of EcoLab
• Lauren Childres
• Dakota McDurham
• Nick Espino
• Caitlin Schneider
• Daniel Buffington
• Hailey Johnson