--- Page 1 of 1 ---

HomeM/eGneurman/SCeoaurrscehs Apply Visit Majors & Minors
GERMAN
Courses
Below you will find a list of our current or recent offerings. See the course catalog for descriptions and
updated information.
12-144 German I: Intro Language and Culture
This course builds the foundation for developing proficiency in speaking, listening, reading and
writing in German. Students learn to communicate effectively both within personal areas of
interest and relative to German culture. The course emphasizes student participation, self-
expression and the ability to create with language. Students develop novice level proficiency. (Fall)
12-154 German II: Intro Language and Culture
This course continues the work begun in the introductory semester and increases focus on
speaking skills and cultural literacy. Students develop novice level proficiency and build
intercultural knowledge and competence. Prerequisite: German 12-144, or equivalent placement.
(Spring)
12-164 German III: Intrmd Language and Culture
This course combines a comprehensive review and fine-tuning of grammar with readings in
literature and culture. Students develop intermediate level proficiency, strengthen their
understanding of contemporary life in the German-speaking world, narrate and describe orally and
in writing, and begin to formulate and support opinions. Increased emphasis on intercultural
knowledge and competence helps students prepare for study, research or internships abroad.
Prerequisite: German 12-154, or equivalent placement. (Fall)
12-204 German Film Studies
This course develops intermediate level proficiency and moves students from description and
narration to argumentation, including evaluating and analyzing information and formulating
hypotheses. Through critical engagement with German films, students gain practice in analytically
viewing and reading sophisticated texts in German related to their areas of interest or expertise
and increase their knowledge of social, political and cultural issues. Contributes to Animal Studies
and International Studies. Prerequisite: German 12-164, or equivalent placement. (Spring)(H)(SJ)
(PJ)
12-314 Reading German: Text in Context
This course introduces the critical appreciation of a wide variety of texts. Personal stories (e.g.
diary), public stories (e.g. journalistic writing), literary stories (e.g. poetry, novellas, short stories)
and stories told in music and visual images form the textual basis for critical engagement. Intensive
work supports the development of intermediate and advanced level proficiency. May be repeated
with change in content. Contributes to International Studies. Prerequisite: German 12-204, or
equivalent placement. (H) (WA)
12-332 Speak German!
This course focuses on the development of oral proficiency at all levels, organized around a
framework of interpersonal, interpretive, and presentational modes of communication. It
promotes autonomy in mixed-ability settings by integrating components where students
collaborate as teachers and learners. Blended learning strategies support the development of
multiple literacies. Students can take the course for 2 or 4 credits with assessments adjusted
accordingly. Students pursuing a major or minor in German may repeat the course to reach the
minimum required credits, as the topics rotate to reflect current events and advanced
proficiencies. Contributes to Health Studies and International Studies. Prerequisite: German 12-
144, or equivalent placement. (Spring) (H)
12-334 Speak German!
This course focuses on the development of oral proficiency at all levels, organized around a
framework of interpersonal, interpretive, and presentational modes of communication. It
promotes autonomy in mixed-ability settings by integrating components where students
collaborate as teachers and learners. Blended learning strategies support the development of
multiple literacies. Students can take the course for 2 or 4 credits with assessments adjusted
accordingly. Students pursuing a major or minor in German may repeat the course to reach the
minimum required credits, as the topics rotate to reflect current events and advanced
proficiencies. Contributes to Health Studies and International Studies. Prerequisite: German 12-
144, or equivalent placement. (Spring) (H)
12-344 Topics in German Literature & Film Film
This course emphasizes writing and discussions on selected literary texts and films. Students
develop and implement their critical and argumentative skills at and beyond the intermediate level,
crafting increasingly complex analyses both individually and in small groups. Students are
encouraged to develop their own poetic voice in creative writing assignments at the intermediate
and advanced proficiency levels. May be repeated with change in topic. Contributes to
International Studies. Prerequisite: German 12-204, or equivalent placement. (H) (WA)
12-354 Topics in German Culture
Students develop intermediate and advanced proficiencies, analyzing and comparing culturally
significant topics represented in authentic materials. Themes represented in texts, images, videos,
films, and music connect areas of literature, history, philosophy, and politics. A focus on social
justice and environmentalism invites comparisons in European and global contexts. Course may be
repeated as topics rotate: 1. Identities; 2. Movements; 3. Innovations. Contributes to
Environmental Studies and International Studies. Prerequisite: German 12-204, or equivalent
placement. (H) (WA) (SJ)(PJ)
12-454 Feminist Studies in German
Based on readings and discussions on a variety of texts addressing categories of difference
including gender, race, class, nation, sexuality, age, ability and religion, students develop advanced
proficiency by exploring critical approaches to literature and film. Text selections suggest
connections across times and spaces from medieval visionary Hildegard von Bingen to
contemporary Literature Nobel Prize winners Herta M
12-514 Studies in German Literature
This course studies selected texts from a variety of periods as related to German social,
intellectual, cultural and literary history. Text selections productively balance tradition and
innovation. The course develops advanced proficiencies in critical and analytical work in the target
language, including through intensive practice of academic writing for research purposes and oral
expression. May be repeated with change in topic. Contributes to International Studies.
Prerequisite: One course from German 12-314, 12-334 or 12-354. (H) (WA)
12-614 Texts/Contexts
This course provides practice in close readings of texts as they relate to multiple fields of study.
Topics may include Climate Fiction Cli-Fi, Fairy Tales, Genius and Madness, the Figure of the
Artist, Memory and Identity, Transnational Writing in German, or Texts of German
Environmentalism. Students continue to enlarge their repertoire of strategies for processing
meaning and practice increasingly sophisticated modes of expression. Intensive work develops
advanced proficiency in academic writing for research purposes and oral expression. May be
repeated with change in topic. Contributes to International Studies. Prerequisite: One course from
German 12-314, 12-334, or 12-354. No prerequisite if taught in English. (H) (WA)
12-714 Transnational Identity Narrative: Gender/Nature/Culture
Taught in English to serve students beyond the German Program, with a corresponding German
Tutorial to maintain or develop proficiency in German. Develops literacy in interdisciplinary
theoretical frameworks, with a focus on feminist and eco-critical theories. Students practice
articulating sophisticated arguments, orally and in writing, when comparing literary and filmic
representations of the experience of migration captured in the themes of loss, witness, translation,
identity formations, exclusion, relationships to place and cultural memory, through texts from
different cultures, media, and historical periods. Further develops intercultural knowledge and
competence. Contributes to Environmental Studies, Feminist Studies, Health Studies, International
Studies, and Race and Ethnicity Studies/Allied Course. (H) (SJ)(PJ)
12-734 Global Leadership and Intercultural Communication
Taught in English to serve students beyond the German Program, with a corresponding German
Tutorial to maintain or develop proficiency in German. The course supports the development of
intercultural knowledge and the skills and attitudes required for communicating across cultures.
Focus on research and case studies, e.g. of Germany's Mittelstand (small and mid-size
enterprises), documenting the increasing importance of intercultural communication for global
leadership. Contributes to Business and International Studies. (H)
12-912 Tutorial Transnational Identity Narrativ
Taught in German. Students integrate course level learning outcomes with proficiency goals in the
target language. Intensive practice and discussion, language and culture specific examples and
case studies, individual research projects and small group assignments. Contributes to Health
Studies and International Studies. Prerequisite: German 12-154, or equivalent. Concurrent
registration in German 12-714 is required.
12-932 Tutorial Global Ldrship Intclt
Taught in German. Students integrate course level learning outcomes with proficiency goals in the
target language. Intensive practice and discussion, language and culture specific examples, case
studies, individual research projects and small group assignments. Contributes to International
Studies. Prerequisite: German 12-154, or equivalent. Concurrent registration in German 12-734
is required.
12-934 Capstone Seminar
This course fulfills the capstone requirement in German. As an integrative experience, the
capstone challenges students to demonstrate their ability to interrelate knowledge, insights and
perspectives gained in their German program and their undergraduate experience. Students will
work on individual projects while participating substantially in discussions and peer review.
Students are expected to demonstrate advanced proficiency. With careful guidance, they will