--- Page 1 of 2 ---

southwestern.edu
For Future Students
4–5 minutes
Global Citizenship Emphasis
We focus on global perspectives through language, literature,
culture, and film. We foster diverse perspectives creatively applied.
Our students use their strong critical and creative skills to excel in
many careers. Many alumni have gone on to work in graduate
schools and public service – Dori Glanz ’06 works in health care at
the White House! Our placement of language in its global context at
all course levels is a unique feature of the Southwestern
undergraduate experience.
Mentoring as a Top Priority
We work closely with students at every level of the learning
process. We get to know everyone personally and move students
toward scholarships and jobs in the USA and internationally. In
Chinese, we mentor student teachers active in local schools and
encourage combining interdisciplinary work with plans for study
abroad. In French, five alumni earned Teaching Assistant in France
scholarships in recent years. In German, eleven alumni have
earned Fulbright Fellowships. Many of these Southwestern
graduates study multiple languages and cultures.
Interdisciplinary Connections
Our teaching in Modern Languages and Literatures is inherently
interdisciplinary, as much across the fields of language, literature,
and culture as across other fields: Art History, Business,
Environmental Studies, Feminist Studies, Film Studies, History,
International Studies, Music, Philosophy, Political Science,
Religion. We intentionally incorporate interdisciplinary
approaches into departmental and extra-departmental courses,
including First Year Seminar, Advanced Entry Seminar, and
Paideia. Our integrated curriculum, which encourages combining or
pairing majors or minors, contextualizes language study in
historical, geographical, cross-cultural and transnational frames.
Diverse Interests and Approaches
We specialize in diverse geographical and thematic areas and
employ a variety of approaches in our teaching and scholarship.
Our faculty members study China, France, Germany, Austria, the
United States, Canada, Belgium, Switzerland, the European Union,

--- Page 2 of 2 ---

the Mediterranean world, and Francophone Africa. Our language,
literature, and culture specialists research issues from the medieval
period to the present day. They are nationally and internationally
known for interests in calligraphy, cities, culture, the environment,
film, food, gender, literature, music, rhetoric, and transnational
identity.
Research Opportunities
Our senior Capstone Seminar enables students to research and
write original scholarship in an area of personal interest. They can
also apply for departmental honors, which encourages still greater
depth. By producing substantial independent research and
delivering a formal oral presentation, students hone their job skills
and use the Capstone as a springboard into exciting, challenging,
personally fulfilling careers. Majors and minors often pursue
internships, scholarships or study abroad to further advance their
marketability, interdisciplinarity, and intercultural awareness.
Lifelong Skills
We foreground critical thinking, reading, writing, and awareness of
cultural differences as skills useful in many fields. We teach skills,
knowledge, and attitudes for building communities and promoting
change. Through on-campus work, study integrated with other
disciplines and consortium colleges, and study abroad, we prepare
students to be effective, flexible, culturally aware citizens. Our
graduates see the world with new eyes and share their passion for
learning throughout their personal and professional lives.