--- Page 1 of 26 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
GGEERRMMAANN
Notable Faculty & Student Achievements
DDeecceemmbbeerr 22002255
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth shared her research at the AATG/ACTFL
conference in New Orleans on November 21. Her presentation, “Advocacy and Leadership
through Universal Design for Learning: UDL and Transparency in Learning and Teaching:
TILT,” contributed to the panel “Single Faculty German Programs – Best Practices.” This well-
attended session focused on German language programs in higher education, bringing
together experienced single faculty instructors to discuss the challenges they face and the
strategies they use to sustain and support their programs. German educators from Rice
University, Belmont University, and Midwestern State University joined Berroth in sharing
their best practices.
SSeepptteemmbbeerr 22002255
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth co-organized and hosted the 6th biennial
joint conference of the three Texas Chapters of the American Association of Teachers of
German at Southwestern on Sept 12-13. German educators from the Houston, South Texas,
and North Texas chapters presented and collaborated on the conference’s dual focus topics:
the uses of AI in teaching and learning, and best practices for recruitment and retention in
German programs. Hueber Publishing, one of Germany’s premier textbook suppliers,
provided an extensive book table and expert guidance to their K-16 materials.

--- Page 2 of 26 ---

Representatives from the Houston Sängerbund promoted their scholarship for study abroad
opportunities. Berroth’s SURF students Kendyl Feuerbacher ’27, Rylee Morris ’28, and
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Maglor Williams ’27 presented their summer research project on the Perry Rhodan science
fiction collection, including reflections on how high impact experiences (HIEs) contribute to
recruitment, retention in the German Program and beyond, and to their trajectories of
personal and professional development. Head of Distinctive Collections and Archives
Megan Firestone and Berroth shared insights into the benefits of collaborations among
faculty and staff in integrating DISCO into the curriculum and providing and mentoring
HIEs. Over 30 participants from middle schools, high schools, colleges, and universities
emphasized the importance of vertical alignments in curricular developments for teaching
and learning languages and cultures. Participants could earn continuing education credits.
This marks the third time Berroth brought the joint conference to SU’s campus, a significant
commitment to community outreach, to increasing the visibility of SU’s Department of
Languages, Literatures, and Cultures, and to invigorating recruitment efforts.
AAuugguusstt 22002255
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth participated in two international conferences
this summer. She presented her research paper, “Memory, Objects, Landscapes: Ecosystems
in Marica Bodrožić’s Texts,” at the FrideL (Frauen in der Literaturwissenschaft) conference in
Stuttgart, Germany. The Conference offered a focus on gender in/and nature in German
studies. At the XV Convention of the Internationale Vereinigung der Germanisten (IVG) in
Graz, Austria, Berroth contributed to “Section 32: Narratives of Psychological Crises in
Contemporary German Language Literatures.” Her research paper, “Pantherzeit und
Lockdown-Lyrik: Kreativität und Reflexion in der Pandemie,” contributed to a series on
literary representations of crisis experiences during the COVID-19 pandemic. Active since
1951 in international collaborations in German studies, the IVG meets every five years,
bringing together 1,700 German studies professionals from over 60 countries worldwide.

--- Page 3 of 26 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
AApprriill 22002255
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth earned two materials grants from the German
Foreign Office and the German Academic Exchange Service, Deutscher Akademischer
Austauschdienst (DAAD). The grants cover two curated collections of German language
publications: German language poetry across the ages, and German language texts in
natural history, climate science, and the anthropocene. Students will engage with those
collections in their studies of German language, literatures, and cultures at all proficiency
levels. Success with DAAD materials grants is made possible through Berroth’s commitment
to community engagement as a DAAD Ortslektorin.
NNoovveemmbbeerr 22002244
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth presented research on curriculum and
instruction at the annual conference of the American Council on Teaching Foreign
Languages (ACTFL) and the American Association of Teachers of German (AATG) from
November 22-24 in Philadelphia, PA. Berroth organized a session “From Aschenputtel to
Schneewittchen: the Culinary in German Fairy Tales.” Fostering insights into a plurality of
experiences around food, this session enhanced understanding of the culinary aspects of
the Grimm’s fairy tales and showed how teachers can support learners across proficiency
levels to analyze texts through the critical lens of food studies, while also working creatively
with fairy tale-based recipes.

--- Page 4 of 26 ---

Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth co-presented a poster on “SPARK for German:
Challenges and Success Stories” at the online conference of the Coalition of Women in
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
German from October 24-26. Berroth, together with Dr. Stefanie Ohnesorg of the University
of Tennessee, Dr. Susanne Rinner of the Goethe Institut in Washington D.C., and Nella
Spurlin of Baylor University, engaged audiences in exploring and discussing SPARK, the
Structured Program for the Acquisition of German in the U.S., resources and know-how.
Mindful of their ecological footprint, the Coalition of Women in German offers the annual
conference online every third year.
OOccttoobbeerr 22002244
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth participated in the 48th annual conference of
the German Studies Association from September 26-29 in Atlanta, GA. Berroth’s research
paper, “Marica Bodrožić und Deniz Utlu’s ‘Unterhaltungen deutscher Ausgewanderten’ –
Reflections on the Curated Virtual Audio Archive Dichterlesen.net,” contributed to a series
of panels organized around the topic of literary kinships in contemporary German literature.
Berroth also served as a commentator for panel presentations in this series.
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth hosted the annual fall conference for the
Texas Chapter of the American Association for Teachers of German at. The conference brought together German educators across instructional levels
and institutions, which is important for developing cohesive curricular pathways to success
from middle and high schools to college, especially with focus on IB and AP programs that
can earn participants college credits. The conference program included teaching and
learning with AI, networking among programs, support for new colleagues, and publicly
engaged humanities initiatives at the state and national levels. Participants earned
continuing education credits.

--- Page 5 of 26 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
JJuullyy 22002244
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth participated in a collaborative event, “Tree
Cultures ad Kew,” co-convened by Interdisciplinary Research at the Royal Botanic Gardens,
Kew, and the University of Derby. Bringing together researchers and practitioners from the
humanities and from arboriculture, participants explored how we understand and regard
the value of trees in both historical and cultural contexts. The symposium showcased
emerging literary and environmental history scholarship on trees and tree spaces, and
fostered discussions around how the arts and humanities can contribute to debates on
trees, past, present, and future. The symposium was held at the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew,
a UNESCO World Heritage site of immense arboreal, botanical, and conservation interest.
Kew’s treescapes foregrounded the symposium’s discussions, and participants had the
opportunity to engage in guided tree walks of Kew’s tree collections and of Kew’s Wood
Xylarium.
AApprriill 22002244
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth’s engagement with the German speaking
community was instrumental in securing a gift to’s Distinctive
Collections: Uwe Lemke’s extensive Perry Rhodan collection, donated by his widow Mary
Duffy. The many volumes of this epic narrative represent Germany’s most successful and
longest running science fiction series that started in 1961, arguably the most successful
science fiction novel series in the world. This gift makes Distinctive Collections and Archives
currently the only library in the USA that can provide access to a German language

--- Page 6 of 26 ---

collection of the Perry Rhodan series.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth presented an invited talk on “Die Zukunft des
Sprachenlernens in den USA: Visionen und Innovationen” (The Future of Studying
Languages in the USA: Visions and Innovations) at the Goethe-Institut in Washington DC.
The joint conference sponsored by the American Association of Teachers of German (AATG)
and the Goethe-Institut brought together invited expert voices in education, administration,
and professional organizations to collaborate on future oriented visions for the continued
success of learning and teaching German across institutions, proficiency levels, and global
networks.
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth earned two DAAD materials grants to support
teaching and learning in German Studies. The grants from Deutsche Akademische
Austauschdienst (German Academic Exchange Service) and the German Foreign Office
provide two curated collections of German language titles: a collection of literary works
published in 2023, and a collection of literature commenting on and reflecting current
salient issues in German culture. Students will use the collections to study representations
of diversity, inclusion, and anti-racism in German literature. Success with DAAD materials
grants is made possible through Berroth’s work in community engagement as a DAAD
Ortslektorin, serving to amplify and multiply the DAAD mission and motto “Change by
Exchange.”
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth mentored two students who presented their

--- Page 7 of 26 ---

research projects at the 13th Undergraduate Research Conference in German Studies,
organized by Moravian and Lafayette Colleges in Pennsylvania on April 6, 2024. This
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
national conference brought together young scholars and their mentors for presentations
and discussions of a range of interdisciplinary topics representative of German
Studies. Isabella Moore ’25, double major in German and Environmental Studies, presented
her comparative study on developments in the use of solar energy in Germany and the
United States. Kendyl Feuerbacher ’27, double major in German and Studio Art with a
minor in Design Thinking, presented her research on the increase of motivation for learning
new languages through the use of video games.
MMaarrcchh 22002244
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth served as an Evaluator for the National
German Exam, administered through the American Association of Teachers of German. The
National German Exam is administered each year to over 15,000 high school students of
German. The exam, now in its 64th year, provides individual diagnostic feedback, rewards
students through an extensive regional and national prize program, and creates a sense of
accomplishment. Exam results provide teachers a means of comparing students in all
regions of the country, as well as programmatic data to help inform curricular decisions. For
over 60 years, the Federal Republic of Germany, through the German Foreign Office and its
Pedagogical Exchange Service, has provided the AATG/PAD National German Exam
Scholarship, a three-week trip to Germany. Berroth’s outreach and support for teachers and
learners of German facilitates transitions from high school to college level German curricula
and the enjoyment of lifelong learning.
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth hosted a campus exploration day for 15
students from Germany and their teachers on February 29. The students from Paul-Klee-

--- Page 8 of 26 ---

Gymnasium in Augsburg participate in the German American Partnership Program, GAPP,
with Westwood High School in Round Rock. Established in 1972, the German American
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Partnership Program facilitates bilateral transatlantic exchanges between schools in the U.S.
and Germany. With a substantial network of participating schools and over 400,000
participants over the years, GAPP is the largest bilateral exchange program between the U.S.
and another country. Berroth’s sustained engagement in this form of community outreach
connects and supports German educators across institutions and increases guidance for
students of languages, who are encouraged to integrate experiences abroad into their
educational paths. Southwestern students and GAPP participants enjoyed opportunities for
increasing their intercultural knowledge and competence.
JJuunnee 22002233
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth accepted an invitation to serve on the
2024-2025 Fulbright U.S. Student Program National Screening Committee. Berroth looks
forward to contributing her experience and expertise to the Fulbright U.S. Student Program
Team, Institute of International Education.
AApprriill 22002233
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth, together with Liesl Alingham, Associate
Professor of German, Sewanee, Anne Stone, Associate Professor of Communications, Rollins,
and Melissa Nelson, Director of Social Impact Hub, Rollins, earned an ACS Award to offer a
faculty development workshop at Sewanee from Tuesday, May 23, 2023,– Thursday, May 25,
2023. The workshop is titled Sustainability Mindset: Making Change Makers. Check the ACS

--- Page 9 of 26 ---

site and register here.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth presented an invited lecture and an invited
workshop at Belmont University in Nashville, TN, on April 2 and 3, 2023. The lecture titled
Connecting through Literature: Reading GDR Women Writers in 2023 contributes to
Belmont’s general education initiative, Well-being for Life-long Learning (WELL Core), as an
intercultural learning WELL Core. The workshop for language educators is titled Hospitality,
Inclusion, and Intercultural Learning: Increasing Empathy by Engaging Food Ways Across
Cultures. It contributes to Belmont’s ongoing community engagement series, Conversations
@ Belmont, that allows for communication and collaboration among educators at colleges,
middle, and high schools for the purpose of preparing students to transition to college
FFeebbuurraarryy 22002233
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth served as a judge at the Texas State German
Contest. On February 25, 2023, Texas State University in San Marcos hosted the Texas State
German Contest on its 41st anniversary. This scholastic competition for high school
students brought together over 1,000 high school students and their teachers from all over
Texas. Engagement with this event marks an important aspect of Berroth’s commitment to
community building and outreach. It was a wonderful opportunity to encourage young
learners to continue their studies of languages, literature, and cultures.

--- Page 10 of 26 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth is co-editor of the recently published volume:
“Behinderungen und Herausforderungen. Disability Studies in der Germanistik.”
(Sektion) Wege der Germanistik in transkultureller Perspektive. Akten des IX. Kongresses der
Internationalen Vereinigung für Germanistik (IVG). (Jahrbuch für Internationale Germanistik.
Beihefte 5). Bd. 5 . Frankfurt a. M.: Peter Lang, 2022, 463-605. Included in this volume is
Berroth’s research article on representations of Deaf Cultures in German film:
“Repräsentationen von Gehörlosigkeit im Film – Jenseits der Stille im Kontext der ‘Deaf
Futures.’” 489-506.
NNoovveemmbbeerr 22002222
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth earned a materials grant from the German
Foreign Office and the German Academic Exchange Service, Deutscher Akademischer
Austauschdienst (DAAD). The grant covers a curated collection of German language titles
for children and young adults, including picture books, graphic novels, non-fiction, and
fiction. Students will use the collection to study media, narration, as well as representations
of diversity, inclusion, and anti-racism in German literature for young audiences. Success
with DAAD materials grants is made possible through Berroth’s work in community
engagement as a DAAD Ortslektorin.
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth was the plenary keynote speaker at the 54th
annual conference of the Tennessee World Language Teaching Association, “The Future of
Languages is You: Learn and Share” in Franklin, Tennessee, on November 4–5, 2022.
Berroth’s keynote address titled “Honoring Multilingualism and Linguistic Diversity as Ways
of Belonging” introduced important questions related to language justice. Increased

--- Page 11 of 26 ---

awareness about language justice contributes to creating inclusive multilingual spaces and
includes challenging structures of power and privilege associated with languages, accents,
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
or dialects. Berroth highlighted the benefits of empathy gained through learning multiple
languages and through inhabiting multilingual spaces. The invited plenary keynote engaged
a diverse audience. The conference convened educators from the Tennessee Classical
Association, the Tennessee Association of Chinese Teachers, and the American Association
of Teachers of French, German, Spanish, and Portuguese.
OOccttoobbeerr 22002222
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth was invited to contribute to a podcast series
sponsored by Literaturhaus Heilbronn, Germany, which was published on October 14, 2022.
The podcast series is titled “Warum Kleist?” (Why Kleist?) and features responses from
international Kleist scholars. Contemporary German language authors compete for the
annual award of the Kleist-Preis in honor of one of Germany’s most remarkable language
artists, Heinrich von Kleist (1777-1811). Berroth’s research includes a book on Kleist and
work on several Kleist-Preis awardees. The podcast episode can be accessed here.
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth hosted the annual fall meeting of the South
Texas Chapter of the American Association of Teachers of German on September 24 at
Southwestern. An enthusiastic group of 20 educators from graduate programs, high
schools, colleges, and universities convened to learn and share in a workshop on integrated
performance assessments (IPAs). Research confirms that use of IPAs leads to higher
proficiency in students, as demonstrated, for example, by improved performance on
Advanced Placement exams or other national assessments. The full-day workshop offered
professional development opportunities for German teachers who often are the lone
teacher in their subject at their institutions. Jennifer Christianson ’99 and current adjunct

--- Page 12 of 26 ---

faculty member in Southwestern’s German Program Erin Osterhaus ’09 participated in the
workshop. Osterhaus is currently implementing the cutting-edge curriculum for first-year
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
German.
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth participated in a three-day seminar titled “The
Medical Humanities in German Studies” at the 46th Annual Conference of the German
Studies Association, held September 15–18 in Houston, Texas. The seminar brought
together 19 scholars who shared, analyzed, and interrogated current research at the
intersection of medical humanities and German studies. In reading and discussing each
other’s work, participants not only discovered cutting-edge scholarship, but also engaged in
discussions about how a medical humanities research approach sheds new light on
Germanophone culture, literature, language, and history. Berroth’s contribution focused on
representations of mental health in German language migration and identity narratives. Her
research contributes to the courses she lists with Southwestern’s interdisciplinary health
studies minor.
SSeepptteemmbbeerr 22002222

--- Page 13 of 26 ---

Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth was a member of the Associated Colleges of
the South (ACS) Working Group: Inclusive Assessment Practices for Flexibility, Rigor, and
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Equity in summer 2022. Berroth delivered a presentation on her experience and expertise in
using transparency in teaching and learning (TILT) methodology. The working group’s
resources are available on the ACS website.
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth visited with Anton Knittel, director of
Literaturhaus Heilbronn in Germany, and contributed to the organization’s podcast Warum
Kleist? (Why Kleist?), a collection of scholarly voices on the German poet and writer Heinrich
von Kleist, who was the subject of one of her books.
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth gave a research presentation at the
International Conference of Teachers of German (Internationale Tagung der
Deutschlehrerinnen und Deutschlehrer), held August 15–20 in Vienna, Austria. Berroth’s
paper, titled “Bilderbuch-Didaktik: Das Potential Anspruchsvoller Bilderbücher für
Literarästhetisches und Sprachliches Lernen im Diversitätsorientierten Unterricht,” was part
of the “Visuelles Lernen mit Bildern, Filmen und Bild-Text-Verbindungen” section. Berroth
provided context and examples for antiracist pedagogies in German studies with authentic
materials from early childhood education, analyzing the visual language of representations
of difference in illustrated books for young readers.

--- Page 14 of 26 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
MMaayy 22002222
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth presented an invited webinar for the
American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages Special Interest Group on Small
Undergraduate German Programs on May 4. The webinar, titled “Pragmatic Program-
Building Blocks for Small German Programs,” addressed a national audience and offered
examples of the what, why, and how of program building, such as developing a signature
“best” (e.g., the German program best at producing Fulbright English Teaching Assistant
Award recipients), building connections across disciplines and programs, developing a focus
on justice issues, and intensifying outreach strategies.
AApprriill 22002222
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth presented research from her sabbatical
project at the virtual conference of the Association for Intercultural German Studies at the
University of Zadar in Croatia, held April 19–22. Her paper titled “Ausgewählte Texte aus
Lyrik, Essays, und Romanen von Marica Bodrožić mit Kritischen Perspektiven aus den
Umweltgeisteswissenschaften” provided an environmental humanities perspective on the
literature of migration to the conference theme of intercultural spaces in the Mediterranean.
MMaarrcchh 22002222

--- Page 15 of 26 ---

Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth increased the German program’s community
outreach by serving as a judge for regional and statewide competitions for students of
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
German in secondary education. The regional Sprachfest 2022 and the Texas State German
Contest brought together German educators and students across institutions. To increase
outreach and networking among German programs, Berroth has accepted invitations to
present her work in program leadership and curricular innovation. She will lead an invited
webinar for the American Council on Teaching Foreign Languages Small Undergraduate
German Programs Special Interest Group in April. She also will deliver the keynote address
at the Tennessee World Language Teaching Association Annual Conference later this year.
The theme of the conference is “The Future of Languages Is You: Learn and Share.” As a
DAAD (German Academic Exchange Service) local representative, Berroth earned a materials
grant (700 Euro) from the German foreign office, and students of German will benefit from
a curated collection of literary works published in 2021.
FFeebbuurraarryy 22002222
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth participated virtually in the American
Association of Colleges and Universities (AAC&U) 2022 Annual Meeting, which took place
January 19–24 in Washington, D.C. Berroth is a member of the Southwestern team of faculty
and staff participating in the 2022–2023 Institute on ePortfolios, which offers strategies to
broaden student engagement. AAC&U, in collaboration with the Association for Authentic,
Experiential, and Evidence-Based Learning (AAEEBL) and the National Association of
Student Personnel Administrators (NASPA), is leading the Institute on ePortfolios, utilizing a
year-of-engagement model.

--- Page 16 of 26 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
DDeecceemmbbeerr 22002211
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth earned a grant from the German Academic
Exchange Service (DAAD) to participate in the 17th International Convention of German
Teachers, which will convene in Vienna, Austria, August 15–20. Berroth will be part of an
international group of 30 Ortslektoren, or teachers of German collaborating with DAAD
worldwide to promote the study of German language, literature, and culture.
NNoovveemmbbeerr 22002211
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth was invited by the Goethe-Institut
Washington, D.C., to participate in a two-day conference held November 11–12 in Berlin,
Germany. The conference brought together representatives from current and potential
partner programs to explore participation in a digital transnational education network
currently active in Germany, Russia, Ukraine, Georgia, and Austria. Topics included
education on sustainable development, peace and conflict studies, and transcultural
communication. Through this network, the Goethe-Institut provides a structure for
promoting transcultural learning, exchange, and the exploration of shared values. Berroth
looks forward to exploring collaborations with Associate Professor of German Liesl
Allingham at the University of the South, who was also invited to the conference.
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth participated in the 46th Annual Coalition of
Women in German (WiG) Conference, which convened virtually November 4–7. As chair of
the WiG Dissertation Prize Committee, Berroth presented the 2020 award to Melissa Elliot
for her nuanced work on the narratives of film music in East German DEFA movies. Berroth

--- Page 17 of 26 ---

presented a poster on her collaboration with Head of Special Collections and
Archives Megan Firestone in mentoring research assistants to create an open educational
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
resource with documents and artifacts from Uta Merzbach’s estate. Berroth highlighted
research on how humanities-based faculty-student research projects, digital-humanities
projects, and research assistantships increase opportunities for high impact experiences
particularly for students of languages, literatures, and cultures.
OOccttoobbeerr 22002211
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth earned a residency at the Deutsches Literatur
Archiv and Collegienhaus in Marbach, Germany. The residency is cosponsored by the
Deutsche Schillergesellschaft and the Max Kade Foundation. Berroth is completing research
on contemporary German-Croatian author Marica Bodrožić, whose recent
publication, Pantherzeit, offers poetic reflections on the spring 2020 COVID-19 lockdown in
Germany and around the world.

--- Page 18 of 26 ---

Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth was invited to give a lecture and lead a
workshop at Sewanee University of the South, contributing to a series of events for German
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Campus Week on October 8. Berroth’s talk, “Cultures of Environmentalism in Germany:
Learning to Care,” addressed the larger Sewanee community, while the workshop on
environmental activism engaged students of German specifically. The event was sponsored
by the Embassy of the Federal Republic of Germany, Washington D.C., and the Department
of German and German Studies at Sewanee.
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth was invited to be a featured speaker at the
Belmont University 20th Annual Humanities Symposium: Reading as a Radical Act, which
convened in Nashville, Tennessee, from September 27 to October 4. Berroth’s presentation,
“Read to Me! Read with Me! Increasing Awareness of Diversity and Inclusion for Readers
and Listeners of All Ages,” addressed the power of reading as a social activity in
contemporary German cultures, featuring examples from children’s books, poetry slams, the
20th anniversary of Vienna’s One City–One Book project, and the importance of overcoming
the one-inch barrier (i.e., the reluctance to read subtitles of films telling stories from other
languages and cultures). Berroth also designed a related quiz that Belmont students took to
earn their Wellcore Cultural Well-Being credits.
SSeepptteemmbbeerr 22002211
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth hosted the 4th Biannual Joint Conference of
the North Texas, Houston, and South Texas Chapters of the American Association of
Teachers of German (AATG) September 17–18. The virtual conference brought together over
60 German educators at the high school and college levels, promoting the sharing of
scholarship, outreach, mentoring, and networking. Berroth presented a research paper titled
“Lies Mir Vor! Lies Mit Mir! Anregungen Zur Inklusion in Kinder- und Bilderbüchern” on

--- Page 19 of 26 ---

current publications for ages three and up that promote empathy around themes of
diversity and inclusion for young audiences as well as adult readers through complex
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
connections of images and text and “Mehrfachadressierung”—strategies engaging multiple
audiences across generations. Berroth mentored Melina Boutirs ’22, a German and
education double major, who presented research completed for her German capstone,
“German-language Hip Hop in Modern Language Teaching and Learning: Increasing Social
Justice and Diversity in the Curriculum,” that was well-received by teachers seeking to
integrate contemporary German music topics into their curricula.
JJuullyy 22002211
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth presented a research paper and coorganized
and comoderated a section of four panels for the XIV Congress of the International
Association for German Studies (IVG), which met in hybrid form July 26–31, 2021, in
Palermo, Italy. The IVG meets every five years with the aim of promoting international
cooperation in the field of German studies. This year’s motto was “Wege der Germanistik in
Transkulturellen Perspektiven.“ Berroth’s contribution addresses inclusion and diversity in
representations of disabilities in contemporary German cinema. Her paper opened the
section “B14: Behinderungen und Herausforderungen: Disability Studies in der Germanistik.”
JJuunnee 22002211
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth presented the paper “Opening Language
Learning to Social Justice: Designing an OER German Curriculum” at the virtual Language
Education for Social Justice conference and the 37th Summer School of Applied Language

--- Page 20 of 26 ---

Studies hosted by the University of Jyväskylä, Finland, June 1–3, 2021. An international
group of scholars, educators, and artists answered central questions: What does social
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
justice have to do with language education? Why do we need to talk about social justice as
language teachers, teacher educators, and researchers? How can research look at and
beyond language in education with the goal of being a catalyst for critical thinking,
democracy, equity, and peace? Berroth’s contribution focused on the collaborative
authoring and editing of an open educational resource, Grenzenlos Deutsch, an introductory
German curriculum.
AApprriill 22002211
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth presented a paper at the 74th KFLC: The
Languages, Literatures, and Cultures Conference at the University of Kentucky, Lexington,
April 22–24, 2021. Her paper “STEM, German, and Dürrenmatt: Interdisciplinary
Connections” contributed to the panel “Friedrich Dürrenmatt at 100,” commemorating the
Swiss author and public intellectual.

--- Page 21 of 26 ---

Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth earned a materials grant from the German
Academic Exchange Service, or DAAD. The German program curriculum and
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
interdisciplinary programs will be enriched through a curated collection of diverse materials
on German myths and legends. Berroth is eligible to compete for those grants as she serves
as a DAAD Ortslektorin, connecting and coordinating outreach to educators at all levels of
instruction.
FFeebbuurraarryy 22002211
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth received a grant from the German Academic
Exchange Service, DAAD. The grant enriches the teaching and learning of German at SU
through a curated collection of prominent publications in German literature in 2019 and
2020.
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth participated in a roundtable at the 2021
virtual conference of the Modern Language Association in Toronto, Canada. Berroth was
one of four speakers invited to present on the topic “How to Survive as a Small German
Program.” The session was sponsored by the American Association of Teachers of German.

--- Page 22 of 26 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
NNoovveemmbbeerr 22002200
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth contributed to the joined virtual conference
of the American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages (ACTFL) and the American
Association of Teachers of German (AATG) November 20–22, 2020. Berroth offered a session
for German educators on developing connections in German instruction to topics in
sustainable development with a focus on climate-science information and disinformation
literacy. Berroth participated in annual meetings as a member of AATG’s regional and
national leadership teams and committees.
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth delivered a workshop for German educators,
invited by the Goethe-Institut in Washington, DC, in collaboration with Goethe-Institut
Mexico. The workshop on integrating authentic resources into education for sustainable
development was part of the virtual conference Unsere Nachhaltige Zukunft (Our
Sustainable Future), November 13 – 15, 2020. Using resources available at
www.klimafakten.de, Berroth introduced an international audience to models for integrating
principles of climate-science communication into teaching German language and culture.
OOccttoobbeerr 22002200
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth gave a presentation on “Syllabus Design and
Universal Design for Learning (UDL)” at the 45th Annual Women in German Conference,
which was hosted virtually at Sewanee, University of the South, Tennessee, October 15–18,
2020. The presentation contributed to a pedagogy panel on “Universal Design for Learning
as Feminist Practice.” Berroth serves on the Women in German Dissertation Prize Committee

--- Page 23 of 26 ---

and was delighted to meet and mentor the candidates and the award winner, who
participated from Germany.
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth participated in a three-day faculty seminar
convened in the context of the 44th annual meeting of the German Studies Association. Via
Zoom, the Beyond Umweltschutz: Narrative and Visual Responses to Environmental Threats
seminar brought together 18 environmental humanities scholars from three continents to
discuss the research papers they shared with this group earlier this year. Berroth’s
contribution, “From Apathy to Empathy: Approaches to Inviting Activism at the Intersections
of Science and Storytelling in Werner Herzog’s Documentaries and Ilija Trojanow’s EisTau
(2011)/ The Lamentations of Zeno (2016),” relates to texts and contexts she teaches in her
first-year and advanced-entry seminar on International Climate Fiction.
SSeepptteemmbbeerr 22002200
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth published an article commemorating the
work of the late Ursula Mahlendorf, an advocate for justice, feminist scholar, and pioneer in
connecting psychoanalysis with the study of literary representations, childhood trauma, and
creativity. The article appears in Glossen, a peer-reviewed, bilingual, German–American
scholarly journal on literature, art, and culture in German-speaking countries after 1945.

--- Page 24 of 26 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
JJuullyy 22002200
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth published the coauthored article “ Grenzenlos
Deutsch : Co-Creating Open Educational Resources through Feminist Collaboration” in
Feminist German Studies , published by the University of Nebraska Press. The publication of
Feminist German Studies volume 36, no. 1 marks the first special issue in the history of this
journal, on the topic “Collaboration in the Humanities.” Members of the authoring collective
are currently refining and expanding the scope of the OER Grenzenlos Deutsch, which
supports the teaching and learning of German in hybrid or remote settings around the
globe.
AApprriill 22002200
Double major in German and physics Claire Harding ’20 earned a prestigious Fulbright
Award. The nationally competitive Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship will take Harding
to Germany, where she will integrate hands-on science learning with lessons in American
cultures and the English language. The Fulbright English Teaching Assistant (ETA) Program
places recent college graduates and young professionals as English teaching assistants in
secondary schools or universities overseas, improving foreign students’ English language
abilities and knowledge of the U.S. while increasing the U.S. student’s own language
proficiency and knowledge of the host country. ETAs also pursue individual study/research
plans in addition to their teaching responsibilities. Harding’s teacher and mentor, Associate
Professor of German Erika Berroth, deeply appreciates Harding’s contributions to the
German program as a tutor and member of the leadership team of the German Club.

--- Page 25 of 26 ---

Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth accepted an invitation issued by Priscilla
Layne, president of the American Association of Teachers of German (AATG), to speak at the
Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
AATG-sponsored roundtable at the 2021 Modern Language Association conference in
Toronto, Canada. The conference theme is Persistence. The roundtable addresses
networking strategies in small programs. The panelists on this roundtable come from a
variety of institutions, from large public state schools to small liberal-arts colleges. Berroth
looks forward to representing small language programs aton this
panel.
MMaarrcchh 22002200
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth earned a materials grant from the German
Academic Exchange Service, DAAD. Materials enriching the teaching and learning of
German at SU include a curated collection of literary works published in 2019 and a
collection of German classics adapted for beginning learners.
FFeebbuurraarryy 22002200
Associate Professor of German Erika Berroth gave an invited presentation at the Northeast
Conference on Teaching Foreign Languages, February 13–15, in New York, NY. Her talk
connected to the conference theme “Languages for All: Envisioning Language Learning
Opportunities for Every Learner” and focused on increasing inclusion through networking.
The presentation was sponsored by the American Association of Teachers of German.

--- Page 26 of 26 ---

Menu Search Apply Visit Majors & Minors
GGEEOORRGGEETTOOWWNN,, TTEEXXAASS
551122..886633..66551111
CCOONNTTAACCTT